Sexually selected lip colour indicates male group-holding
status in the mating season in a multi-level primate society
Cyril C. Grueter, Pingfeng Zhu, William L. Allen, James P. Higham, Baoping Ren and Ming Li
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150490.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150490
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 July 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 15 September 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 11 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 12 November 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150309.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Thore Bergman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes--data are in the supplementary material which is quite clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I think this is an interesting and worthwhile publication. The research is sound and the results are
convincing and clearly presented. The season/status interaction is particularly interesting
although the somewhat small sample sizes and lack of behavioral data prevent much exploration
of the issue. My only concern is that similar papers have previously been found in primate-
specific journals and I am not sure how much of an advance this paper represents. Because this is
a new journal, I am not familiar with the scope—I merely raise this as an issue for the editor to
consider.
A few minor points:
I would like more references for the color methods—e.g., have similar types of standardization
been used before?
I am curious why the authors made no attempt to correct for the visual system of the subjects as
Higham has advocated in the past? I know the data are likely lacking, but it seems that the issue
should at least me mentioned.
Page 7, line 33 ‘males’
Thore Bergman
University of Michigan
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It should be clear to the reader how to access supplementary data if it is linked to the publication
online. However, the spreadsheet with data is not organized in a clear and easy to understand
way. Specifically, there are multiple entries for many of the study subject. For example, Mili is at
the beginning of the Table with data for statistical analyses and then we find more entries around
rows 102 and 103. It is unclear if these data are collected at different times or if they are somehow
different from each other. This should be made clearer or the Table should be sorted according to
individual identification. Additionally, the table called raw data seems to provide links to photos
of different individuals, but this is not accessible using the named file path
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
First, my concern about statistical analyses relates to what seems to be single observations of
coloration during the mating season for some males. Perhaps it would be clearer that there are
more observations than just one at MS, for some males, if there was a summary table with the
total number of observations in what season for each individual. Also, it does not look like all
individuals were observed in each season. Can the authors please make this clearer as it has
relevance for the statistical power of the study.
More generally, the study of “Sexually-selected lip colour indicates male group-holding status in
the mating season in a multi-level primate society” reported by Grueter et al addresses an
interesting question regarding differences in facial, specifically lip, coloration among male black
and-white snub-nosed monkey. The authors have collected and presented data that has not yet
been reported in the primate literature but may have relevance for future researchers.
I have a few concerns about the images that they collect and analyse. Did they control for
distance from the study subject when images were taken? How repeatable would the colour
calculations be if two sets of images were compared during a 15 minute interval? Also, it is
unclear which observations are from the same time period. For example, are the mating season
observations for Bailian from the same MS or for two different ones? Similarly, what about the
Non mating seasons? Same or different ones? Also, how can they justify the fact that the
averages for all individual’s non mating season colours are 18.09 and the average for the mating
season are 16.93?
Taken together, while is a valuable study of a new, but long-standing, question, the authors need
to clarify issues related to sampling, data management and they could also include a discussion
of key points raised in other, relevant, publications on coloration (e.g., comparisons within and
between individuals, technical limitations and, of course, something on sample size limitations).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150309)
14-Aug-2015
Dear Dr Grueter:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150309 entitled "Sexually-selected lip colour indicates male group-holding
status in the mating season in a multi-level primate society" which you submitted to Royal
Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the
bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
4
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 11-Feb-2016. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150309)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150490.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, the information about data is clearer in the revision and the addition of more supplementary
data is appropriate
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The revised manuscript is now clearer with respect to the limitations of study (i.e., sample size
and scope of observations) and also with respect to repeatably.
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150490)
03-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Grueter
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150490 entitled
"Sexually-selected lip colour indicates male group-holding status in the mating season in a multi-
level primate society" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision. Please proof read your manuscript and make sure it includes all the required
sections as detailed below.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150490
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
6
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 12-Nov-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Dr Grueter:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150309 entitled "Sexually-selected lip colour indicates male group-
holding status in the mating season in a multi-level primate society" which you submitted to
Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are
included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current
form. However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these
comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance,
and that your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and
login to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on
"Create a Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for
resubmitting your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 11-Feb-2016. If you are unable to
submit by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I think this is an interesting and worthwhile publication. The research is sound and the
results are convincing and clearly presented. The season/status interaction is particularly
interesting although the somewhat small sample sizes and lack of behavioral data prevent
much exploration of the issue. My only concern is that similar papers have previously been
found in primate-specific journals and I am not sure how much of an advance this paper
represents. Because this is a new journal, I am not familiar with the scope-I merely raise this
as an issue for the editor to consider.
We thank the Reviewer for his positive and constructive comments. Regarding the scope
of the Journal, this is explicitly stated as: “publishing all articles which are scientifically
sound and useful to the community”. We are very glad that you agree that our manuscript
satisfies these criteria, stating that our manuscript is scientifically sound, interesting, and
worth publishing. It represents the first attempt at quantifying secondary sexual traits in a
hitherto neglected primate taxon that displays high levels of ornamentation and an
unusual social organisation. The sample at hand is large enough to examine the effects of
several explanatory variables on levels of facial coloration and the results point to
interesting interactions between group-holding status and season.
A few minor points:
I would like more references for the color methods-e.g., have similar types of
standardization been used before?
We have expanded this section and included reference to previous studies that have
taken similar approaches (Page 6).
I am curious why the authors made no attempt to correct for the visual system of the
subjects as Higham has advocated in the past? I know the data are likely lacking, but it
seems that the issue should at least me mentioned.
The Reviewer is correct that the data are lacking. We now explain this better on Page 6:
Images were originally collected for another project that did not intend to study
colouration. Consequently images were taken with a camera for which the spectral
sensitivity (how the sensors respond to different wavelengths of light) had not been
calculated – images were also recorded in jpeg rather than raw format. This makes it
impossible to accurately map a transformation from the camera’s colour space to
Rhinopithecus colour space. Additionally Rhinopithecus colour space has not yet been
characterised so we would have had to use another primate colour space (likely
Cercopithecus). Thus, though ideally we would have liked to examine signals in the colour
space of the subjects and assess discriminability, with the data available we had to take a
pragmatic approach to examining colouration in this species for the first time.
Page 7, line 33 'males'
This has been corrected
Thore Bergman
University of Michigan
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
First, my concern about statistical analyses relates to what seems to be single observations
of coloration during the mating season for some males. Perhaps it would be clearer that
there are more observations than just one at MS, for some males, if there was a summary
table with the total number of observations in what season for each individual. Also, it does
not look like all individuals were observed in each season. Can the authors please make this
clearer as it has relevance for the statistical power of the study.
We have provided a summary table with the total number of observations in each season
for each individual. Photos from the non-mating season were available for all males in the
sample whereas for 2 males no photos were available from the mating season. The mean
number of photos per male from the mating season was 1.8 (range: 0-7, SD = 1.74), and
from the non-mating season 4.9 (range: 1-8, SD = 2.17).
More generally, the study of "Sexually-selected lip colour indicates male group-holding
status in the mating season in a multi-level primate society" reported by Grueter et al
addresses an interesting question regarding differences in facial, specifically lip, coloration
among male black and-white snub-nosed monkey. The authors have collected and
presented data that has not yet been reported in the primate literature but may have
relevance for future researchers.
I have a few concerns about the images that they collect and analyse. Did they control for
distance from the study subject when images were taken?
As we were taking colour rather than size measurements from the photographs, the
distance between the subject and photographer would only have a discernible effect on
colour measurements over extreme distances (or underwater) where atmospheric
conditions such as humidity or pollution cause differential scattering of different
wavelengths of light to alter the transmittance properties. Our photographs were taken at
an average distance of 5 metres (now stated in the MS, Page 6) in low-dust conditions
where these effects will not come into play to any measureable degree.
How repeatable would the colour calculations be if two sets of images were compared
during a 15 minute interval?
We agree that it is important to establish the repeatability of colour measurements. While
it is also impossible to analyse the consistency across all photos in the dataset as we have
established that the colour of the subject changes throughout the season, we instead
compared pairs of photos of the same individual taken on the same day at least 5 minutes
apart. This confirmed the reliability of our measures - intraclass correlation coefficients
were very strong and significantly different from zero for all three colour measurements.
We now report these results in the main text (Page 7).
We have also analysed the repeatability of colour measurements from a much larger set
of photos of rhesus macaques taken in a similar free ranging situations where we have an
accompanying photographic standard, and note that the colour differences between
repeat photographs in the present study are of roughly the same magnitude as in that
situation.
Also, it is unclear which observations are from the same time period. For example, are the
mating season observations for Bailian from the same MS or for two different
ones? Similarly, what about the Non mating seasons? Same or different ones?
Photographs were taken between September 2012 and October 2013; the mating season
lasted from August to October. Of the 27 photos taken in the mating season, 19 were
taken in 2012 and 8 in 2013. All photos from the non-mating season were taken after
October 2012. We have now added this information to the manuscript (Page 6).
Also, how can they justify the fact that the averages for all individual's non mating season
colours are 18.09 and the average for the mating season are 16.93?
Overall there may not be much of a difference between mating and non-mating season,
but the interactions mating season*status and mating season*age are nonetheless
significant. This is because, unlike adult male OMU holders, bachelor subadult and
juvenile males are getting less colourful in the mating season, perhaps to avoid the costs
of reproductive competition.
Taken together, while is a valuable study of a new, but long-standing, question, the authors
need to clarify issues related to sampling, data management and they could also include a
discussion of key points raised in other, relevant, publications on coloration (e.g.,
comparisons within and between individuals, technical limitations and, of course, something
on sample size limitations).
We have included more information on sample size variation within and between
individuals (Table1), and also controlled for individual ID effects statistically by using
Linear Mixed Models. We have added a brief discussion of the study’s technical limitations
to the final paragraph.
Society Open
