An integrated approach to historical population assessment
of the great whales: case of the New Zealand southern right
whale
Jennifer A. Jackson, Emma L. Carroll, Tim D. Smith, Alexandre N. Zerbini, Nathalie J.
Patenaude and C. Scott Baker
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150669.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150669
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150669.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andre Punt)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See Attached (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Sidney Holt)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I have no critical comments, the MS satisfies all Open Science's criteria, and should be published.
I do not mind if you tell the authors I was a referee and found the paper interesting, well-written
and useful- Sidney Holt
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Lars Witting)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I don't know if it is an absolute condition - but it should certainly be made available.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Review of Jackson et al “An integrated approach … southern right whale “ (RSOS-150669)
This manuscript provides a first integrated assessment of a southern right whale population
(New Zealand), where abundance data (mark-recapture), catch histories and genetic information
on a minimum bottleneck size of the population is integrated into an assessment of the historical
development of the population, as determined by past historical whaling. As such it is of interest
for the documentation and understanding of human impacts on natural populations and their
recovery, and as well as for the more general understanding of population dynamics.
The inclusion of the mark-recapture process directly into the assessment model is need, and the
use of Nmin as a lower boundary to the exploitation is also a need trick to impose more realism
on a model that would otherwise estimate an even stronger overexploitation (as shown by the
authors). Yet I think the assessment and discussion of it could be improved by a little more
information.
First, while genetics sets the 15-20 mature females as an absolute lower boundary that indeed
constrains the model as it is slammed up against the lower boundary by the estimation process, I
think we need more discussion on the genetic estimate of Nmin. I am not completely familiar
with the genetic Nmin analysis, however, I would certainly expect that the best genetic point
estimate for Nmin would be much larger than the 15-20 mature females. These females are (as I
understand it) the minimum number of females needed to allow the number of mtDNA
haplotypes to survive a bottleneck, but unless virtually all females in the original population
would have had different haplotypes (which is completely unlikely) we would expect a
distribution at the bottleneck where several females would have the same haplotype and the
overall number of mature females would be somewhat, maybe even much, larger than the 15-20
individuals. Hence, if I have got it right, genetics would estimate a significantly higher Nmin and
this is important to include in the paper in order to fully understand just how realistic the
estimated trajectories may be. This could either by included as a discussion that justifies the
current Nfloor from a more general genetic estimate, or by a separate run where a potential point
estimate of Nmin is used as a floor or a complete genetic Nmin estimate (with cv) is used as an
ordinary abundance estimate in the fitting of the model.
A second improvement could be the inclusion of estimates of current growth (over the mark
recapture period) – instead of just Rmax. Rmax is really just a model construct and natural
population may not necessarily have a corresponding component, and it is therefore not really
informative with discussions on the biological relevance of the estimated Rmax parameter. What
4
is much more informative is estimates and discussions that relate to the current growth rate,
especially if these are combined with a simple exponential model that focusses only on the mark
recapture period to provide us with a best “model-independent” estimate of the current growth.
With best estimates of Nmin from genetics (instead of the current minimum Nfloor) and a best
“model independent” estimate of the current growth rate – the paper would be in a much better
shape to discuss the actual relevance of the estimated trajectories. To what degree is the
assessment able to estimate a realistic Nmin and current growth at the same time? Or is the
model too rigid, and thus indicating that more flexible models might do a better job.
A last comment relates to the discussion on Allee effect on page 8, where ref 4 actually applies
Allee effect models (depensation) to seven species of large whales. While the conclusions may be
limited to some degree by the available data, it would be useful to reflect the results in the
discussion.
In conclusion I recommend that the manuscript is published with the inclusion of discussions and
maybe extra analyses that relate to my points above.
Lars Witting
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150669)
22-Jan-2016
Dear Dr Jackson
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150669 entitled
"An integrated approach to historical population assessment of the great whales: case of the New
Zealand southern right whale" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
5
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150669
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-Jan-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
6
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Phillip Clapham):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
This is a novel and thoroughly sound paper, as recognized by the referees. There are a few minor
statistical issues to address, but this is clearly a good paper that will make a significant
contribution to the literature.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See Attached
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I have no critical comments, the MS satisfies all Open Science's criteria, and should be published.
I do not mind if you tell the authors I was a referee and found the paper interesting, well-written
and useful- Sidney Holt
7
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of Jackson et al “An integrated approach … southern right whale “ (RSOS-150669)
This manuscript provides a first integrated assessment of a southern right whale population
(New Zealand), where abundance data (mark-recapture), catch histories and genetic information
on a minimum bottleneck size of the population is integrated into an assessment of the historical
development of the population, as determined by past historical whaling. As such it is of interest
for the documentation and understanding of human impacts on natural populations and their
recovery, and as well as for the more general understanding of population dynamics.
The inclusion of the mark-recapture process directly into the assessment model is need, and the
use of Nmin as a lower boundary to the exploitation is also a need trick to impose more realism
on a model that would otherwise estimate an even stronger overexploitation (as shown by the
authors). Yet I think the assessment and discussion of it could be improved by a little more
information.
First, while genetics sets the 15-20 mature females as an absolute lower boundary that indeed
constrains the model as it is slammed up against the lower boundary by the estimation process, I
think we need more discussion on the genetic estimate of Nmin. I am not completely familiar
with the genetic Nmin analysis, however, I would certainly expect that the best genetic point
estimate for Nmin would be much larger than the 15-20 mature females. These females are (as I
understand it) the minimum number of females needed to allow the number of mtDNA
haplotypes to survive a bottleneck, but unless virtually all females in the original population
would have had different haplotypes (which is completely unlikely) we would expect a
distribution at the bottleneck where several females would have the same haplotype and the
overall number of mature females would be somewhat, maybe even much, larger than the 15-20
individuals. Hence, if I have got it right, genetics would estimate a significantly higher Nmin and
this is important to include in the paper in order to fully understand just how realistic the
estimated trajectories may be. This could either by included as a discussion that justifies the
current Nfloor from a more general genetic estimate, or by a separate run where a potential point
estimate of Nmin is used as a floor or a complete genetic Nmin estimate (with cv) is used as an
ordinary abundance estimate in the fitting of the model.
A second improvement could be the inclusion of estimates of current growth (over the mark
recapture period) – instead of just Rmax. Rmax is really just a model construct and natural
population may not necessarily have a corresponding component, and it is therefore not really
informative with discussions on the biological relevance of the estimated Rmax parameter. What
is much more informative is estimates and discussions that relate to the current growth rate,
especially if these are combined with a simple exponential model that focusses only on the mark
recapture period to provide us with a best “model-independent” estimate of the current growth.
With best estimates of Nmin from genetics (instead of the current minimum Nfloor) and a best
“model independent” estimate of the current growth rate – the paper would be in a much better
shape to discuss the actual relevance of the estimated trajectories. To what degree is the
assessment able to estimate a realistic Nmin and current growth at the same time? Or is the
model too rigid, and thus indicating that more flexible models might do a better job.
A last comment relates to the discussion on Allee effect on page 8, where ref 4 actually applies
Allee effect models (depensation) to seven species of large whales. While the conclusions may be
limited to some degree by the available data, it would be useful to reflect the results in the
discussion.
8
In conclusion I recommend that the manuscript is published with the inclusion of discussions and
maybe extra analyses that relate to my points above.
Lars Witting
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150669)
See Appendix B.
Review: An integrated approach to historical population assessment of the great
whales: case of the New Zealand southern right whale
by
Jennifer A. Jackson, Emma Carroll, Tim D. Smith, Alexandre N.
Zerbini, Nathalie Patenaude, and C. Scott Baker
This paper uses (integrates) information from several sources, including genetic
information, catches, trend information and data on absolute abundance. The paper is
not particularly methodologically innovative, but the application is, to my knowledge,
unique and would be of general interest to those in the marine mammal conservation
community. The approach used to account for catch uncertainty (which should be
mentioned more in the methods section) is fairly novel and should be highlighted
more than is the case at present. I have divided my comments on the manuscript into
‘General’ and ‘Specific’, and use the line numbers by page to identify locations in the
manuscript.
GENERAL REMARKS
A. The link to southeast Australia is captured through the catch scenarios.
However, should some account of this be taken in the population estimates?
Given the relative sizes of the two populations I suspect not, but I believe it
needs to be discussed.
B. The assessment is based on an age- and sex-aggregated model. This is fairly
standard for some whale assessments (e.g. for humpbacks). However, other
whale assessments (e.g. for bowhead and gray whales) are based on age- and
sex-structured models that allow biological constraints to be imposed on the
population dynamics. I believe you need to justify why you could not use a
more biologically appropriate model, particularly given the material in Section
5.4 on sex bias in catches. Given the data, I doubt there would be
computational issues moving to a more “realistic” model.
C. The imposition of a minimum population size means that the priors are
updated before the data are taken into consideration. Formally, this is invalid
statistically, because the only thing that should update the priors are the data
and the minimum population size is not data (as it has no likelihood
component). Minimally, this issue needs to be discussed.
D. The paper needs to include posterior predictive checks to validate that the
model is able to mimic all (or most) of the data.
E. You compare the RMAX values to the population growth rate, but you should be
comparing the model predicted growth rate over the period with data (which
should be similar, but not identical to, RMAX). Also, the data on growth rate are
the tagging data not the growth rate itself – readers could easily assume that
you fitted to the growth rate data as the manuscript is currently written.
F. There needs to be more discussion of why it is reasonable to assume that K
and RMAX remained constant over time, and the consequences if this is not the
case.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
1. Page 2, Line 16.You use “initial” here but “pre-exploitation” elsewhere
2. Page 2, line 47. I suggest starting this paragraph with a description of how
many stocks are postulated to occur in the southern Hemisphere and that two
of them are the NZ region and the southeast Australia region stocks.
3. Page 3, line 20. This is not a logistic model.
4. Page 3, line 37. Start this section with a description of the number of fleets
that caught whales off NZ (and southeast Australia). Also, the main text needs
to reference the plots of the catch series (caption to Fig. 2 does not reference
catches). I did not see reference to the ex-Soviet catches in this section.
5. Page 3, line 57. “two low and high series” or “low and high series”?
6. Page 4, line 3. It was 2,300 earlier?
7. Page 4, line 10. The data were not used to “weight the model…” – they were
used to form a likelihood. Also, how was the model “adjusted”? Finally, the
0.97 was used in the model for the tagging data and not the population model.
I suggest you clarify this.
8. Page 5, line 10. SIR was not developed by McAllister et al. It goes much
further back in time.
9. Page 5, line 11. Projected without removals I assume.
10. Table 1. Define “NZEA” in the table caption.
11. Tables 2 and 3. Define in the caption what is being reported in this table
(posterior medians and 95% credibility intervals). Also, define what “%
Recovery Status” means (numbers relative to K?) Also define “depletion” for
a general audience.
12. Page 5, line 56. I am not sure how you get 6.0 – 6.3% from Table 2.
13. Page 6, lines 4-5. If you think that 10% is unrealistic, why was it included in
the prior? Either change the prior or drop this statement.
14. Page 6, line 5. Are you comparing the population model estimates or the
mark-recapture estimates – I assumed the former, but the text indicates the
latter.
15. Page 6, line 35. I suggest introducing ex-Soviet whaling earlier. I presume that
those catches were included in the analyses, but this is not mentioned.
16. Page 7, lines 1-4. I am not sure how you make the link between 202,000+
animals and 35,000 animals. I suspect you could easily drop this paragraph
which adds litle to the MS.
17. Section 5.2. Much of this material is introductory and does not arise from the
analyses of this paper. Minimally, the first two paragraphs should be shortened
and moved to the introduction.
18. Page 8, lines 11+. You could easily add in depensation, but if the population is
recovering, depensaton seems a little unlikely as this population was depleted
to extremely low levels – if there is depensation it occurs are a very small
level of population depletion.
19. Page 8, page 23. Your model does not assume a linear decline in growth rate –
that would occur only if the degree of compensation was 1.
20. Fig S3A. These are not priors. They are post-model-pre-data distributions or
derived quantities. Also, please define all the quantities in Figs S3A and S3B
in the caption.
21. Supplementary S2. I suggest adding an example of creating a series to the file.
Andre E. Punt (13 December 2015)
Director Professor Jane Francis
High Cross, Madingley Road
Cambridge CB3 OET
United Kingdom
Telephone (01223) 221400
Facsimile (01223) 362616
Dear Mr Dunn and Dr Clapham,
Many thanks for the reviews of our paper: ‘An integrated approach to historical population
assessment of the great whales: case of the New Zealand southern right whale’. Here we
provide responses to the comments of the two reviewers below, and would like to thank Dr
Clapham and Sidney Holt for their positive comments also.
In responding to the comments and suggestions of the reviewers we have made significant
changes to the manuscript and added a number of new analyses. Particularly, we now include
analyses where mark recapture data from females is used to fit the assessment model, as well
as males, and we find that these data better fit the population closure assumptions of the
assessment model. We have also added additional sensitivity analyses where the assessment
model is fitted to relative and absolute abundance estimates produced by an independent
analysis of the mark recapture data which takes into account capture heterogeneity. The
overall outcomes for population status are not changed, but significant re-writes of the results
and discussion sections have resulted. In order to maintain clarity with the additional new
scenarios, we have now also cut out the set of scenarios where bottleneck constraints of
Nfloor=48 are explored since this scenario constrains population growth rates to levels which
are at or below the lower boundary of observed trend estimates. We apologise for the delay in
returning this revised manuscript.
Yours sincerely,
Yours sincerely,
Jennifer Jackson
Reviewer One:
This paper uses (integrates) information from several sources, including genetic
information, catches, trend information and data on absolute abundance. The paper is
not particularly methodologically innovative, but the application is, to my knowledge,
unique and would be of general interest to those in the marine mammal conservation
community. The approach used to account for catch uncertainty (which should be
mentioned more in the methods section) is fairly novel and should be highlighted more
than is the case at present. I have divided my comments on the manuscript into
‘General’ and ‘Specific’, and use the line numbers by page to identify locations in the
manuscript.
Response: Thank you for your comments. We have now highlighted the approach used to
account for catch uncertainty within all sections of the document.
GENERAL REMARKS
A. The link to southeast Australia is captured through the catch scenarios. However,
should some account of this be taken in the population estimates? Given the relative
sizes of the two populations I suspect not, but I believe it needs to be discussed.
Population size in southeast Australia is very small. Here, the population modeling is focused
on reconstruction of the New Zealand population, with catch scenarios designed to
accommodate a lot of uncertainty in the past distribution of the New Zealand population.
Catches include southeast Australia, to explore the possibility that New Zealand whales were
in the past very wide ranging and could be caught there, and by including all catches from
southeast Australia, we create an ‘upper bound’ catch scenario for the New Zealand whales
(see Section 3.5). If we include southeast Australia whales as part of the modern population
then the intent of the assessment changes – this becomes an assessment of New Zealand and
southeast Australia whales. The upshot of this would be that to put an upper catch bound on
the New Zealand + southeast Australia population, catch allocations would have to go even
wider, to include south and perhaps a proportion of west Australia catches. Co-assessment of
the New Zealand population with other calving grounds in Australia is an important next step
in the assessment process, which we hope the current study provides a useful background for.
We have added an additional line to the text to highlight this point in Section 3.5: ‘This
scenario provides an upper bound on the likely catch impact on the New Zealand population’
B. The assessment is based on an age- and sex-aggregated model. This is fairly standard
for some whale assessments (e.g. for humpbacks). However, other whale assessments
(e.g. for bowhead and gray whales) are based on age- and sex-structured models that
allow biological constraints to be imposed on the population dynamics. I believe you
need to justify why you could not use a more biologically appropriate model,
particularly given the material in Section 5.4 on sex bias in catches. Given the data, I
doubt there would be computational issues moving to a more “realistic” model.
This study represents a first effort at a comprehensive assessment for southern right whale
population. While it would be possible and likely very insightful to increase the
parameterization of this model, there are a number of parameter components being explored
and varied in the current model structure, and working with the additional complexity of a
fully age-sex disaggregated model at this stage seemed a step too far. We agree with this
suggestion and now note in the discussion (Section 5.6) that such a development is the next
step for analysis of these data. However we note that empirical demographic data are
currently only from eight years of survey over the time period 1995-2009 so not yet as robust
as other datasets used for age and sex structured models.
C. The imposition of a minimum population size means that the priors are updated
before the data are taken into consideration. Formally, this is invalid statistically,
because the only thing that should update the priors are the data and the minimum
population size is not data (as it has no likelihood component). Minimally, this issue
needs to be discussed.
Yes. In section 3.4 we note that the Nfloor constraint updates the priors before data are put into
the model and discuss this further in Discussion section 5.5: ‘However it is important to note
that imposing a Nfloor constraint on the population model, as applied here and in recent
population assessments of humpback whales (60), updates the model priors independently of
the assessment data, because high Rmax values are associated with very bottleneck abundance
values, Nmin. Since Nfloor has no likelihood component, formally this model structure is
statistically invalid.’
D. The paper needs to include posterior predictive checks to validate that the model is
able to mimic all (or most) of the data.
All prior and posterior distributions generated in this study are now included in the
supplementary files associated with this manuscript as Supplementary Figures 1A-P.
We have also conducted a test of the mark recapture data within a simple forward-projected
exponential model in order to determine the abundance and trend most strongly supported by
these data, detailed in Section 3.2 and plotted in Supplementary Figure 2.
E. You compare the RMAX values to the population growth rate, but you should be
comparing the model predicted growth rate over the period with data (which should be
similar, but not identical to, RMAX). Also, the data on growth rate are the tagging data
not the growth rate itself – readers could easily assume that you fitted to the growth rate
data as the manuscript is currently written.
We have re-written the Results section to refer to the model predicted rate of population
increase (ROI) over 1995 to 2009 rather than Rmax. We make the second point in section 3
(iv), which highlights that the tagging data have been directly used as information for the
growth rate. This point is also again made in the first paragraph of the Discussion Section 5.3.
We have now added a paragraph here discussing the model-predicted results in context of
prior mark recapture measurements of abundance and trend from these data.
F. There needs to be more discussion of why it is reasonable to assume that K and
RMAX remained constant over time, and the consequences if this is not the case.
This is now discussed in the final paragraph of Section 5.4:
‘Assumptions of constant K through time may also be violated, if the extent of available
calving and foraging habitats have changed significantly over the past 200 years, either due to
environmental shifts, or shifts in available niche space due to intra- or inter-species
competition. For example, genetic diversity based estimates of long-term abundance suggest
>20,000 southern right whales were using the Victoria calving grounds (SE Australia) in the
past, compared to 35,000 off New Zealand (17). Since there are less than 400 right whales
sighted in southeast Australia today, the loss of a large local calving ground could potentially
have increased available foraging habitat for New Zealand right whales. Population
assessment of the catch histories, pre-exploitation abundance and recovery of calving
grounds around Australia would be required to evaluate these shifts with accuracy.’
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
1. Page 2, Line 16.You use “initial” here but “pre-exploitation” elsewhere
Done. To maintain the context of the sentence we have added ‘pre-exploitation’ in
parentheses.
2. Page 2, line 47. I suggest starting this paragraph with a description of how many
stocks are postulated to occur in the southern Hemisphere and that two of them are the
NZ region and the southeast Australia region stocks.
We have added this as suggested.
Modified to refer to ‘generalised-logistic’ model
4. Page 3, line 37. Start this section with a description of the number of fleets that caught
whales off NZ (and southeast Australia). Also, the main text needs to reference the plots
of the catch series (caption to Fig. 2 does not reference catches). I did not see reference
to the ex-Soviet catches in this section.
We have added a sentence on the number of fleets involved in this campaign. Fig. 1 is now
referred to in the text at the start of Section 3.1 and Fig. 2 has been modified to indicate that
catches have been plotted. A short paragraph on ex-Soviet catches has been added to Section
3.1.
5. Page 3, line 57. “two low and high series” or “low and high series”?
I’ve elaborated this to describe the four series more clearly.
6. Page 4, line 3. It was 2,300 earlier?
This should be 2,200 and it has been modified.
7. Page 4, line 10. The data were not used to “weight the model…” – they were used to
form a likelihood. Also, how was the model “adjusted”? Finally, the 0.97 was used in the
model for the tagging data and not the population model. I suggest you clarify this.
We have revised this statement on model weighting, have explained how the model was
adjusted (see below), and have explained the application of the 0.97 survival rate within the
tagging model in the methods text.
We have added: ‘The function was adjusted so that the capture-recapture data were fitted to
halved model-predicted abundance estimates, since the capture-recapture data were from
males and model-predicted abundances pertained to both sexes.’
8. Page 5, line 10. SIR was not developed by McAllister et al. It goes much further back
in time.
Changed ‘developed by’ to ‘as implemented by’
9. Page 5, line 11. Projected without removals I assume.
Yes.
10. Table 1. Define “NZEA” in the table caption.
This reference has now been modified to ‘Southwest Pacific’ catches for clarity.
11. Tables 2 and 3. Define in the caption what is being reported in this table (posterior
medians and 95% credibility intervals). Also, define what “% Recovery Status” means
(numbers relative to K?) Also define “depletion” for a general audience.
This has been done.
12. Page 5, line 56. I am not sure how you get 6.0 – 6.3% from Table 2.
This is an error and has been removed.
13. Page 6, lines 4-5. If you think that 10% is unrealistic, why was it included in the
prior? Either change the prior or drop this statement.
We have removed this statement. The priors on RMAX and NCURRENT were designed to be
very broad and uninformative. So values at the upper and lower end of RMAX might be
unrealistic, but there is no formal advantage to narrowing the prior boundary, as the intent is
to let the data inform these estimates with minimum interference from the prior. Population
growth rates over 10% seem unrealistic based on 3 year calving rates from South Africa, but
not impossible, as calving periods may vary across populations, and depending on other life
history factors. To be consistent, I have modified the description of the prior in Section 3.4 so
that it no longer says the prior range is ‘realistic’: ‘A uniform prior was imposed on Rmax
spanning 0-0.12, to span a wide range of biologically possible growth rates for southern right
whales (36).’
14. Page 6, line 5. Are you comparing the population model estimates or the mark-
recapture estimates – I assumed the former, but the text indicates the latter.
This section has been re-written so that the distinction between these two is clearer.
15. Page 6, line 35. I suggest introducing ex-Soviet whaling earlier. I presume that those
catches were included in the analyses, but this is not mentioned.
This is now introduced in Section 3.1 (iv).
16. Page 7, lines 1-4. I am not sure how you make the link between 202,000+ animals and
35,000 animals. I suspect you could easily drop this paragraph which adds litle to the
MS.
We have clarified this paragraph. The genetic based estimate of 35,000 whales is similar to
the demographic estimate of 27,000-44,000 which is worth some explicit consideration, given
the high-profile and unresolved disparities between genetic and demographic pre-exploitation
estimates previously reported for other whale species.
17. Section 5.2. Much of this material is introductory and does not arise from the
analyses of this paper. Minimally, the first two paragraphs should be shortened and
moved to the introduction.
This section has been substantially cut, and some sentences have been moved to the
introduction.
18. Page 8, lines 11+. You could easily add in depensation, but if the population is
recovering, depensaton seems a little unlikely as this population was depleted to
extremely low levels – if there is depensation it occurs are a very small level of
population depletion.
I have removed discussion of depensation as a possible mechanism from the Discussion.
19. Page 8, page 23. Your model does not assume a linear decline in growth rate – that
would occur only if the degree of compensation was 1.
This is an error. We have removed the term ‘linear’.
20. Fig S3A. These are not priors. They are post-model-pre-data distributions or derived
quantities. Also, please define all the quantities in Figs S3A and S3B in the caption.
This has been clarified in the results and legend text. Prior and posterior distributions
(formerly in Figs S3A and B) are now shown in Figs S1A-P, and quantities have been defined
in the initial figure caption.
21. Supplementary S2. I suggest adding an example of creating a series to the file.
We have added two example scenarios to the file.
Many thanks for your comments.
Reviewer Two:
This manuscript provides a first integrated assessment of a southern right whale
population (New Zealand), where abundance data (mark-recapture), catch histories and
genetic information on a minimum bottleneck size of the population is integrated into an
assessment of the historical development of the population, as determined by past
historical whaling. As such it is of interest for the documentation and understanding of
human impacts on natural populations and their recovery, and as well as for the more
general understanding of population dynamics.
The inclusion of the mark-recapture process directly into the assessment model is need,
and the use of Nmin as a lower boundary to the exploitation is also a need trick to
impose more realism on a model that would otherwise estimate an even stronger
overexploitation (as shown by the authors).
Thank you.
Yet I think the assessment and discussion of it could be improved by a little more
information. First, while genetics sets the 15-20 mature females as an absolute lower
boundary that indeed constrains the model as it is slammed up against the lower
boundary by the estimation process, I think we need more discussion on the genetic
estimate of Nmin. I am not completely familiar with the genetic Nmin analysis, however,
I would certainly expect that the best genetic point estimate for Nmin would be much
larger than the 15-20 mature females. These females are (as I understand it) the
minimum number of females needed to allow the number of mtDNA haplotypes to
survive a bottleneck, but unless virtually all females in the original population would
have had different haplotypes (which is completely unlikely) we would expect a
distribution at the bottleneck where several females would have the same haplotype and
the overall number of mature females would be somewhat, maybe even much, larger
than the 15-20 individuals. Hence, if I have got it right, genetics would estimate a
significantly higher Nmin and this is important to include in the paper in order to fully
understand just how realistic the estimated trajectories may be.
This could either by included as a discussion that justifies the current Nfloor from a
more general genetic estimate, or by a separate run where a potential point estimate of
Nmin is used as a floor or a complete genetic Nmin estimate (with cv) is used as an
ordinary abundance estimate in the fitting of the model.
Unfortunately it is very difficult to build a robust measure of what Nmin might be at present.
considerations for developing a Nmin prior for whale populations. In particular, the challenge
for southern right whales is population connectivity- we cannot assume that current mtDNA
haplotype frequencies all represent ‘true NZ’ animals and would need to do simulations to
evaluate the impact of different inter-population connectivity levels and bottleneck sizes on
the observed genetic data and the breadth of a Nmin prior. There are only three haplotypes in
the current NZ population which are ‘private’ to NZ, i.e. not seen in any samples from other
SRW populations. All of these are very low frequency. Using Nfloor=36 remains a sensible
and very conservative lower bound until more data are available to provide a better estimate
of this, since as you say it is clearly a very conservative constraint.
A second improvement could be the inclusion of estimates of current growth (over the
mark recapture period) – instead of just Rmax. Rmax is really just a model construct
and natural population may not necessarily have a corresponding component, and it is
therefore not really informative with discussions on the biological relevance of the
estimated Rmax parameter. What is much more informative is estimates and
discussions that relate to the current growth rate, especially if these are combined with a
simple exponential model that focusses only on the mark recapture period to provide us
with a best “model-independent” estimate of the current growth.
We have now added in population growth rate estimates (ROI) for 1995 to 2009 into Tables
2, S1 and S2, and have now focused relevant parts of the discussion on the rate of population
increase over 1995-2009 rather than on Rmax.
Thank you, this simple exponential model is a very useful suggestion to include. We
constructed a simple exponential growth model over the mark recapture survey period and
evaluated the likelihood of different ROI and N1995 abundance combinations. In doing this,
we discovered that the 0.97 survival rate used in the analysis favours ROI values close to the
prior upper boundary on population growth. An independent analysis of the mark recapture
data including both males and females found that relative to females (apparent survival
~1.00), male apparent survival was ~0.83-0.85, suggesting high rates of emigration over the
survey period (Carroll et al. 2013). In view of this we have now included new scenario
analyses where fits of (i) female recaptures, and (ii) relative abundance outputs from previous
mark recapture analyses of these data (in a model which accommodated inter-annual capture
heterogeneity of females) are integrated. We find that the population closure assumptions in
the model are not violated for female recaptures so now make these the focal dataset of the
paper, rather than the male recaptures.
With best estimates of Nmin from genetics (instead of the current minimum Nfloor) and
a best “model independent” estimate of the current growth rate – the paper would be in
a much better shape to discuss the actual relevance of the estimated trajectories. To
what degree is the assessment able to estimate a realistic Nmin and current growth at
the same time? Or is the model too rigid, and thus indicating that more flexible models
might do a better job.
We agree, more flexible models should be better able to accommodate both current growth
and a biologically realistic bottleneck size than the standard density dependent model
structure. We discuss this in the discussion section 5.3 and 5.5.
A last comment relates to the discussion on Allee effect on page 8, where ref 4 actually
applies Allee effect models (depensation) to seven species of large whales. While the
conclusions may be limited to some degree by the available data, it would be useful to
reflect the results in the discussion.
We have cut out the paragraph discussing depensation since other models, such as the
In conclusion I recommend that the manuscript is published with the inclusion of
discussions and maybe extra analyses that relate to my points above.
Many thanks.
Society Open
