On relativistic multipole moments of stationary space–times
Francisco Frutos-Alfaro and Michael Soffel
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180640.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180640
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180640.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
REFEREE REPORT
Title: On relativistic multipole moments of stationary spacetimes
Authors: F. Frutos-Alfaro and M. Soffel
The authors of this manuscript investigate the multipole structure of several well-known
stationary axially symmetric solutions of Einstein's field equations in empty space. It is
remarkable that the authors present all the main aspects and the explicit expressions of the
metrics they analyze. The main result of the paper is the derivation of the GH multipole moments
for the MN, QM and q-metrics. In addition, the static limiting case is compared with other known
static solutions. As far as I can see, the results are correct and the explicit form of the multipole
moments (up to the order 10) could be of importance for the description of the gravitational field
of deformed astrophysical objects. The authors also point out the limits of applicability of all sets
of multipoles.
The paper is in general well written and the results are important for theoretical astrophysics. I,
therefore, recommend accepting this paper for publication. However, I also suggest the authors
consider the following points in a revised version of their manuscript:
1. In Eq.(2.1) the constant sigma is given explicitly for the Kerr metric. Is this expression also valid
when higher multipoles are considered? I suggest the author comment on the value of sigma.
2. The form of the line element in prolate coordinates is not widely known and used. For clarity of
the presentation, I suggest the authors include after Eq.(2.4) the explicit form for the
Schwarzschild and Kerr metrics, which are the simplest representatives of static and stationary
solutions, respectively.
3. Eq.(2.19) should be corrected.
4. For all three stationary metrics (MN, QM and q) it seems that there is a particular choice of the
parameters for which the quadrupole vanishes (M2=0). Is this a physically realistic choice? What
is the meaning of M2=0? The authors should comment this limiting value.
5. Physically, one would expect for astrophysical objects that a realistic rotation has the limit a<m
and the extreme value a=m corresponds to an extreme black hole. The authors should analyze all
the stationary moments in the limit of an "extreme object" (a=m) and verify if all the three cases
are equal and correspond to an extreme black hole.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180640.R0)
04-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Frutos-Alfaro
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180640 entitled
"On Relativistic Multipole Moments of Stationary Spacetimes" has been accepted for publication
3
in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee
suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180640
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
4
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Jun-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
5
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Daniel Thompson (Associate Editor) and Prof. Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
REFEREE REPORT
Title: On relativistic multipole moments of stationary spacetimes
Authors: F. Frutos-Alfaro and M. Soffel
The authors of this manuscript investigate the multipole structure of several well-known
stationary axially symmetric solutions of Einstein's field equations in empty space. It is
remarkable that the authors present all the main aspects and the explicit expressions of the
metrics they analyze. The main result of the paper is the derivation of the GH multipole moments
for the MN, QM and q-metrics. In addition, the static limiting case is compared with other known
static solutions. As far as I can see, the results are correct and the explicit form of the multipole
moments (up to the order 10) could be of importance for the description of the gravitational field
of deformed astrophysical objects. The authors also point out the limits of applicability of all sets
of multipoles.
The paper is in general well written and the results are important for theoretical astrophysics. I,
therefore, recommend accepting this paper for publication. However, I also suggest the authors
consider the following points in a revised version of their manuscript:
1. In Eq.(2.1) the constant sigma is given explicitly for the Kerr metric. Is this expression also valid
when higher multipoles are considered? I suggest the author comment on the value of sigma.
6
2. The form of the line element in prolate coordinates is not widely known and used. For clarity of
the presentation, I suggest the authors include after Eq.(2.4) the explicit form for the
Schwarzschild and Kerr metrics, which are the simplest representatives of static and stationary
solutions, respectively.
3. Eq.(2.19) should be corrected.
4. For all three stationary metrics (MN, QM and q) it seems that there is a particular choice of the
parameters for which the quadrupole vanishes (M2=0). Is this a physically realistic choice? What
is the meaning of M2=0? The authors should comment this limiting value.
5. Physically, one would expect for astrophysical objects that a realistic rotation has the limit a<m
and the extreme value a=m corresponds to an extreme black hole. The authors should analyze all
the stationary moments in the limit of an "extreme object" (a=m) and verify if all the three cases
are equal and correspond to an extreme black hole.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180640.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180640.R1)
13-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Frutos-Alfaro,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "On Relativistic Multipole Moments of
Stationary Spacetimes" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
7
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Elena Falco
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Daniel Thompson (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Daniel Thompson):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Appendix A
Dear Editor
Please find enclosed a new version of the paper entitled "On relativistic multipole moments of
stationary spacetimes"
Ethics
Authors’ Contributions
Data Accessibility
Competing Interests
Funding
Acknowledgements
are all included after the conclusions.
Answers to the Referee
The paper is in general well written and the results are important for theoretical astrophysics. I,
therefore, recommend accepting this paper for publication. However, I also suggest the authors
consider the following points in a revised version of their manuscript:
1. In Eq.(2.1) the constant sigma is given explicitly for the Kerr metric. Is this expression also valid
when higher multipoles are considered? I suggest the author comment on the value of sigma.
Yes, you are right, we improved the text to avoid it. sigma appears by transforming from cylindrical to
these prolate coordinates.
2. The form of the line element in prolate coordinates is not widely known and used. For clarity of the
presentation, I suggest the authors include after Eq.(2.4) the explicit form for the Schwarzschild and
Kerr metrics, which are the simplest representatives of static and stationary solutions, respectively.
We added the metric potentials of the Kerr and Schwarzschild potentials in these prolate coordinates.
3. Eq.(2.19) should be corrected.
In this equation, I did not find an error, I revised the literature and it is correct.
Please, could you tell me where is the error?
4. For all three stationary metrics (MN, QM and q) it seems that there is a particular choice of the
parameters for which the quadrupole vanishes (M2=0). Is this a physically realistic choice? What is the
meaning of M2=0? The authors should comment this limiting value.
For most sufficiently massive astronomical bodies the shape (due to gravity and rotation) is
close to that of an oblate spheroid, whose even mass-moments, in the Newtonian limit, are
fully dertermined by the semi-major and minor-axes. For an ordinary star the various multipole
moments are not independent of each other but are determined by its mass, rate of rotation and
the local equation of state. This also holds in the relativistic case, e.g., for neutron stars. Even for
black holes, according to the no-hair conjecture all mass-moments are determined fully by the
values for mass and angular momemtum in the Kerr case. The situation where an object, e.g.,
has no mass quadrupole but other higher mass multipole moments is unphysical. This serves as
motivation to analyze the multipole structure of these three spacetimes, namely the MN, QM and
q-metrics.
We included this text in the Introduction.
5. Physically, one would expect for astrophysical objects that a realistic rotation has the limit a
The metrics are isometric for this limiting case (a = m). We wrote it in the paper.
Moreover, we analyzed the case for neutron stars according to the literature, please see equation
(3.8) and the text there (page 14)
Best Regards
Francisco
Society Open
