Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks:
implications for the dissemination of information
Alecia J. Carter, Alexander E. G. Lee, Harry H. Marshall, Miquel Torrents Ticó and Guy
Cowlishaw
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140444.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140444
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140444.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is one supllementary table which is necessary. The table is clear and useful.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review RSOS-140444
“Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks: implications for the dissemination of
information”
by Carter et al.
The authors pick up an interesting question, namely whether individual baboons with similar
phenotypes associate closer in social networks. The authors further assume that a closer
association will provide better opportunities for information transfer by social learning, but do
not present any further data in support of this assumption. Therefore, their study remains on an
elaborate and detailed social network analysis. The main point which might make the study
interesting is the fact that the authors quantified the social networks of two baboon groups over a
long period (six years) and that they incorporate as variables not only sex age and dominance
rank but also one personality trait (boldness). Interestingly, genetic relationship was included as a
factor, although female baboons in particular tend to associate (spatially and social) with their
female kin. The results concerning the association patterns are not surprising given the social
organization and mating system of the baboons. The authors clearly discuss their result
accordingly and for me the take-home message of their study is that the variation found in the
social networks reflect the peculiarities of the baboon social system. Concerning the information
transfer, it might be true that by sitting together and grooming might help to transfer
information, but one can also imagine that in an open habitat like that of chacma baboons in
Namibia, one baboon can easily learn about the usage of a new food tree from a distance larger
than 1 m. I have the feeling that much about the dissemination of information depends on the
kind of information that is transferred. Information about novel food patches might be available
from a distance also by social learning, e.g. if a “friend” is climbing and feeding in a tree, whereas
what is actually eaten and how it smells and tastes might be perceivable only from close distance
(e.g. when a juvenile inspects very close what the mother is chewing).
The paper is well written, the methods appropriate and the analyses thorough, but the presented
results are in general not unexpected. I therefore have problems in recognizing what the “point”
of the paper is. Perhaps the authors can pinpoint the peculiarities of their results a bit more and
why they go beyond what is known about baboon social networks.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Mathias Franz)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No, it is not clear whether and how the data will be made available that will allow repeating the
performed network analyses
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Carter et al. investigate phenotypic assortment in baboon social networks. The main purpose of
their analysis is to test whether the distribution of phenotypes in these networks is likely to
promote or retard the transmission of social information. This is an interesting question that has
been largely ignored in previous studies on social information transmission. Pursuing this
question could be very important for understanding the dynamics of social information
transmission and the evolution of social learning and social structures. The main result of this
study demonstrates that several phenotypic traits (age, rank and boldness) are often positively
assorted, specifically in grooming networks. The authors then conclude that these assortment
patterns may impede information transmission between ‘information producers’ and
‘information scrounger’. While I really like the focus of the study, I have several concerns about
the conducted analyses and the interpretation of the results.
1. The authors report that a previous studies on baboons showed that the propensity of
producing and scrounging of information depends on a complex combination of several
individual characteristics: age, boldness and rank (lines 85-88). However, due to methodological
limitations (lines 208-210) the authors analyzed the assortment of each trait separately (line 199-
202). While I understand the methodological limitations, I think the approach used by the authors
entails more problems than the authors anticipated. Specifically I expect that the conducted
analysis could reveal positive assortment in single traits in absence of positive assortment in
information producing/scrounging phenotypes. A hypothetical example: assortment in age and
boldness might emerge because old, bold individuals preferentially groom each other, while all
other individuals have no preferences regarding these phenotypes. In separate analysis this could
led to result of positive assortment for age and for boldness. However, there would be no positive
assortment for information producers since the main information producers are young, bold
individuals.
As a potential solution to this problem the authors might consider to use results of their previous
studies (lines 85-88) to estimate for each individual their propensity to engage in information
production vs. scrounging. Using such an estimated phenotype would allow a more direct test of
the main hypothesis. Alternatively the authors need explain more clearly why their separate
analysis of phenotypes allows drawing conclusions about the assortment of information
producers and scroungers.
2. One of the central assumptions made by the authors is that positive assortment of information
producers and scroungers impedes or retards information transmission from producers to
scroungers (e.g. lines 31, 65-67, 288-290). In their reasoning the authors seem to have overlooked
one critical aspect. As the authors explain (lines 52-53), information transmission from producers
to scroungers can occur (1) directly from a producer to a scrounger or (2) indirectly via a chain
that starts with a producer and includes several scroungers, i.e. scroungers can also learn from
other informed scroungers. The arguments of the authors seem to focus exclusively on the first
case. In this case it is true that positive assortment can reduces information transmission.
However, this does not need to be the case for indirect transmission from producers to
scroungers. In contrast, positive assortment among scroungers should strongly increase
secondary information transmission among scroungers, which certainly could outweigh the
negative effects on primary information transmission. The reason for the facilitating effect on
secondary information transmission is the positive feedback effect where more social learning
events generate more models for others to learn from (which in homogenous populations leads to
4
initial exponential increase in the typical s-shaped diffusion curves). (Things can be of course
more complicated, e.g. the strength of the facilitating effect would also depend on how often
scrounger display the new trait.)
In summary, I think the authors need to make clear that their conclusions only apply to direct
information transmission from producers to scroungers. Unfortunately this strongly limits the
insights that can be gained regarding social information transmission more generally. Perhaps the
authors could discuss how often social information transmission in baboons occurs directly from
producers or indirectly from other scrounger? Complementing the study with a theoretical
analysis of information transmission (with empirical networks as input) would provide a clearer
picture on the overall effects of assortment on information transmission. However, such an
analysis is certainly beyond the scope of this study.
Minor comments
Line 61: citation 18 does not seem to say anything about homophily
Line 183-184: Why was grooming given normalized for each individual? This removes any
information on inter-individual differences in total grooming time. As a result individuals who
groom very little have the same total strength of ‘social bonds’ as individuals who groom a lot. It
would be good to explain why this makes sense.
Lines 193-194: This approach implies that the recorded grooming networks only capture initiation
of grooming. I am not entirely sure why this makes sense. I get the general point regarding
pseudo-replication, but should this really include partner switching? Since you are constructing
directed networks, it seems it would be more appropriate to only exclude replicates with the
same direction but not exclude partner switches.
Lines 227: include “(2009-2012)” after “collected data”
Lines 242: consider performing statistical tests (e.g. Fisher’s exact test) to test whether these is a
significant co-occurrence of assortment.
Could variation in assortment patterns be related to differences in group composition, e.g.
proportion of juveniles or proportion of bold individuals (or a combination of both)?
I hope the authors find my comments helpful.
Mathias Franz, Duke University
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140444)
04-Feb-2015
Dear Dr Carter,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks:
implications for the dissemination of information") has now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 27-Feb-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
5
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Your paper has received two thorough reviews and while the reviewers see strong merit in the
study, they raise concerns that must be addressed in a substantially revised version of the
manuscript. I agree with their assessment and think this will make a valuable contribution to RS
Open Science, but please submit your revision with a cover letter detailing exactly how you have
dealt with each concern raised. Many thanks - Mike Bruford.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140444)
See appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140444.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is one supllementary table which is necessary. The table is clear and useful.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Review RSOS-140444.R1
7
“Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks: implications for the dissemination of
information”
by Carter et al.
I have reviewed this paper before and I think the authors did a good revision and incorporated
much of the reviewers’ suggestions. The analyses of networks seem to be ok, but the I am still not
convinced that a baboon’s position within a grooming or proximity network will contribute much
to its ability to use social information about potentially new food. The potential for transmission
of social information along a network might be there, but it is not clear whether this plays a
significant role in chacma baboons. Nevertheless, I think the paper is scientifically sound and it
might be interesting for the readers of RSOS.
Minor comments:
Authors should have a look at Sigg H. 1980. Differentiation of female positions in hamadryas
one-male units. Z. Tierpsychol. 53:265-302, for the idea of different “roles” in a social unit.
Line 84 change "wild social networks" to "social networks of wild baboons" or something similar
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Mathias Franz)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
I have no further comments and recommend acceptance of the manuscript. Congratulations on a
great paper!
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140444.R1)
07-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Carter:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140444.R1
entitled "Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks: implications for the dissemination of
information" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
9
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Apr-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Dr Kevin Padian
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Reviewer 2 has one point that remains to be acknoweldged before this paper can be accepted.
10
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140444.R1)
See Appendix B.
Prof Mike Bruford
Cardiff School of Biosciences,
The Sir Martin Evans Building,
Museum Avenue,
Cardiff, CF10 3AX
12 April 2015
We thank the reviewers for re-reviewing our submission, “Phenotypic assortment in wild
primate networks: implications for the dissemination of information” for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
In response to reviewer 2’s speculation, we have provided further justification that social
information about novel foods is likely to transfer through the baboons’ social networks in the
Introduction. However, as we have been cautious in our interpretation of our findings by
stipulating that our predictions must be tested (LL360-363, 439-440), we have not made any other
substantial changes in response to this comment.
Our detailed responses to the reviewers’ comments are inserted after each comment below in
blue text and preceded by the word “RESPONSE”.
We thank you for accepting our manuscript for publication.
Yours sincerely,
Alecia Carter and co-authors
DETAILED RESPONSES TO REVIEWERS’ COMMENTS:
Reviewer: 2 Comments to the Author(s) I have reviewed this paper before and I think the authors
did a good revision and incorporated much of the reviewers’ suggestions. The analyses of
networks seem to be ok, but the I am still not convinced that a baboon’s position within a
grooming or proximity network will contribute much to its ability to use social information about
potentially new food. The potential for transmission of social information along a network might
be there, but it is not clear whether this plays a significant role in chacma baboons.
Nevertheless, I think the paper is scientifically sound and it might be interesting for the readers of RSOS.
RESPONSE:
We thank the reviewer for the encouraging comments. Regarding the speculation about a
baboon’s social network position contributing or not to its use of social information about a new
food, we agree with the reviewer that this has not yet been tested in baboons.
However, baboons learn socially about novel foods from one another, and we think the
prediction that they will learn from those with whom they are socially affiliated is reasonable and
in line with previous studies cited in the Introduction. We have added this to the manuscript
(LL92-93).
Minor comments:
Authors should have a look at Sigg H. 1980. Differentiation of female positions in hamadryas
one-male units. Z. Tierpsychol. 53:265-302, for the idea of different “roles” in a social unit.
11
RESPONSE:
We thank the reviewer for the suggested literature; however, none of the authors have access to
the full text of this paper. What we have read in the abstract is suggestive of phenotype-limited
access to preferred social partners, which is an interesting idea. We will pursue this literature
further as we develop our ideas in this field. Line 84: change “wild social networks” to “social
networks of wild baboons” or something similar.
RESPONSE:
Changed. L84
endix A
Dr. Alecia Carter
Junior Research Fellow
Large Animal Research Group
Department of Zoology
University of Cambridge
Mike Bruford
ff School of Biosciences,
ir Martin Evans Building,
um Avenue,
ff, CF10 3AX
bruary 2015
hank you and the reviewers for the constructive comments on our earlier submission of our
script, “Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks: implications for the dissemination of
ation” for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
ponse to the reviewers’ comments, we have made substantial changes to the revised version of the
script. To briefly summarise the substantial changes we have made, in response to Reviewer 1’s
ents, we have now included analyses of assortment for individuals who were likely information
cers (bolder juveniles) and information scroungers (shyer, higher ranking individuals). In response to
wer 2’s comments, we have included a discussion of our ideas for an ‘information phenotype’
work we are currently developing, and changed our terminology from information producer/scrounger
more generalizable terms ‘information generator’ and ‘information exploiter’. We have also moved
iscussion of the peculiarities of the baboon system after our more general ideas of information use
ocial networks to highlight the generalisability of our findings.
esponses to the reviewers’ comments are inserted after each comment below in blue text and
ded by the word “RESPONSE”.
hank you for your time considering our manuscript and we look forward to hearing from you in the
.
sincerely
Carter and co-authors
ILED RESPONSES TO REVIEWERS’ COMMENTS:
wer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
r et al. investigate phenotypic assortment in baboon social networks. The main purpose of their
sis is to test whether the distribution of phenotypes in these networks is likely to promote or retard the
mission of social information. This is an interesting question that has been largely ignored in previous
s on social information transmission. Pursuing this question could be very important for
standing the dynamics of social information transmission and the evolution of social learning and
structures. The main result of this study demonstrates that several phenotypic traits (age, rank and
ess) are often positively assorted, specifically in grooming networks. The authors then conclude that
assortment patterns may impede information transmission between ‘information producers’ and
mation scrounger’. While I really like the focus of the study, I have several concerns about the
ucted analyses and the interpretation of the results.
e authors report that a previous studies on baboons showed that the propensity of producing and
nging of information depends on a complex combination of several individual characteristics: age,
ess and rank (lines 85-88). However, due to methodological limitations (lines 208-210) the authors
zed the assortment of each trait separately (line 199-202). While I understand the methodological
tions, I think the approach used by the authors entails more problems than the authors anticipated.
fically I expect that the conducted analysis could reveal positive assortment in single traits in absence
ositive assortment in information producing/scrounging phenotypes. A hypothetical example:
tment in age and boldness might emerge because old, bold individuals preferentially groom each
while all other individuals have no preferences regarding these phenotypes. In separate analysis this
led to result of positive assortment for age and for boldness. However, there would be no positive
tment for information producers since the main information producers are young, bold individuals.
potential solution to this problem the authors might consider to use results of their previous studies
85-88) to estimate for each individual their propensity to engage in information production vs.
nging. Using such an estimated phenotype would allow a more direct test of the main hypothesis.
atively the authors need explain more clearly why their separate analysis of phenotypes allows
ng conclusions about the assortment of information producers and scroungers.
ONSE: We thank the reviewer for this suggestion. We have now included assortativity estimates for
duals according to their propensity to generate information (formerly ‘information producers’, i.e.
r juveniles) and exploit information (formerly ‘information scroungers’, i.e. shyer, higher ranking
duals). We detail this in the Methods (LL145-160), Results (throughout) and build on these new
gs in the Discussion (LL318-355).
e of the central assumptions made by the authors is that positive assortment of information producers
croungers impedes or retards information transmission from producers to scroungers (e.g. lines 31,
, 288-290). In their reasoning the authors seem to have overlooked one critical aspect. As the authors
in (lines 52-53), information transmission from producers to scroungers can occur (1) directly from a
cer to a scrounger or (2) indirectly via a chain that starts with a producer and includes several
ngers, i.e. scroungers can also learn from other informed scroungers. The arguments of the authors
to focus exclusively on the first case. In this case it is true that positive assortment can reduces
ation transmission. However, this does not need to be the case for indirect transmission from
cers to scroungers. In contrast, positive assortment among scroungers should strongly increase
dary information transmission among scroungers, which certainly could outweigh the negative effects
rimary information transmission. The reason for the facilitating effect on secondary information
mission is the positive feedback effect where more social learning events generate more models for
s to learn from (which in homogenous populations leads to initial exponential increase in the typical s-
ed diffusion curves). (Things can be of course more complicated, e.g. the strength of the facilitating
would also depend on how often scrounger display the new trait.)
mmary, I think the authors need to make clear that their conclusions only apply to direct information
mission from producers to scroungers. Unfortunately this strongly limits the insights that can be gained
ding social information transmission more generally. Perhaps the authors could discuss how often
information transmission in baboons occurs directly from producers or indirectly from other
nger? Complementing the study with a theoretical analysis of information transmission (with empirical
rks as input) would provide a clearer picture on the overall effects of assortment on information
mission. However, such an analysis is certainly beyond the scope of this study.
ONSE: We hope that our future research will test this question empirically. As we mention in the
ssion, we hypothesise that individual differences in information use after its acquisition will retard the
of information in these groups; our concern is that, even if models could incorporate differences in
ation use, they will not be realistic or predictive of the diffusion process until individual differences in
ation use are understood. However, regarding the comment about direct and indirect transmission of
ation, we now address this in the manuscript as recommended by the reviewer: LL312-318. “As we
on in the Introduction, naïve individuals may acquire social information directly from information
ators or secondarily from information exploiters. The limitations to information transmission due to
phily that we describe may apply only to those cases of direct transmission between information
ators and exploiters; however, after an initial primary transfer between an information generator to an
iter, homophily may then promote information transmission among secondary information exploiters.”
comments
61: citation 18 does not seem to say anything about homophily
ONSE: We were referring to the finding in the study that, “In those groups where highly pro-social
duals preferentially interact with other pro-social individuals, information was more likely to be lost”
9. We felt that the reference to pro-social individuals preferentially interacting with similar others was
tive of homophily (though the term itself was not used) and thus believed the reference to be
priate. We have removed it here, however, as the reviewer thought it inappropriate.
183-184: Why was grooming given normalized for each individual? This removes any information on
ndividual differences in total grooming time. As a result individuals who groom very little have the
total strength of ‘social bonds’ as individuals who groom a lot. It would be good to explain why this
s sense.
ONSE: This comment raises the issue of what is a meaningful relationship for a baboon, at least in
of gaining access to information. While we did consider using the proportion of the total focal time
grooming others for each individual (rather than the proportion of the total grooming time), we felt that
duals’ normalised investment better reflected their ‘strategies’ for access to information, and we now
attempted to explain our reasoning in the manuscript: LL209-212 “We chose to normalise grooming
ch individual instead of calculating the proportion of focal observation time dedicated to grooming
individual as we felt that it better reflected particular individuals’ strategic investment in their
onships with others.”
193-194: This approach implies that the recorded grooming networks only capture initiation of
ing. I am not entirely sure why this makes sense. I get the general point regarding pseudo-
ation, but should this really include partner switching? Since you are constructing directed networks, it
s it would be more appropriate to only exclude replicates with the same direction but not exclude
er switches.
ONSE: We apologise that this was not clear in the original submission: because these data were
ted ad libitum we could not be sure that we could identify the initiator of a grooming bout and these
thus do not reflect grooming initiations, but only instances of grooming. We have clarified this in the
script L215
227: include “(2009-2012)” after “collected data”
ONSE: Changed. L255
242: consider performing statistical tests (e.g. Fisher’s exact test) to test whether these is a
icant co-occurrence of assortment.
ONSE: We have considered this suggestion as requested, but due to concerns that we would be
analysing the data, and the additional problems inherent in using statistics to describe trends in
tics, we have not pursued it further.
variation in assortment patterns be related to differences in group composition, e.g. proportion of
iles or proportion of bold individuals (or a combination of both)?
ONSE: We hope our new analyses address this issue to some extent, and our discussion of the
that not all individuals can be categorised as having a propensity for either information generation or
itation LL326-337.
e the authors find my comments helpful.
ONSE: Yes. We thank the reviewer for the thoughtful and thorough comments, and have
wledged him (and the following anonymous reviewer) in our acknowledgements.
as Franz, Duke University
wer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
w RSOS-140444
otypic assortment in wild primate networks: implications for the dissemination of information”
rter et al.
uthors pick up an interesting question, namely whether individual baboons with similar phenotypes
iate closer in social networks. The authors further assume that a closer association will provide better
tunities for information transfer by social learning, but do not present any further data in support of
ssumption. Therefore, their study remains on an elaborate and detailed social network analysis. The
point which might make the study interesting is the fact that the authors quantified the social networks
baboon groups over a long period (six years) and that they incorporate as variables not only sex age
dominance rank but also one personality trait (boldness). Interestingly, genetic relationship was
ed as a factor, although female baboons in particular tend to associate (spatially and social) with their
e kin. The results concerning the association patterns are not surprising given the social organization
ating system of the baboons. The authors clearly discuss their result accordingly and for me the take-
message of their study is that the variation found in the social networks reflect the peculiarities of the
on social system. Concerning the information transfer, it might be true that by sitting together and
ing might help to transfer information, but one can also imagine that in an open habitat like that of
ma baboons in Namibia, one baboon can easily learn about the usage of a new food tree from a
ce larger than 1 m. I have the feeling that much about the dissemination of information depends on
nd of information that is transferred. Information about novel food patches might be available from a
ce also by social learning, e.g. if a “friend” is climbing and feeding in a tree, whereas what is actually
and how it smells and tastes might be perceivable only from close distance (e.g. when a juvenile
cts very close what the mother is chewing).
ONSE: We did not include relatedness in our analyses of homophily for two reasons. First, in
ous research of foraging decisions in this study site, we found little evidence that relatedness
mines who scrounges from whom over and above social bonds [1, 2]. Second, we do not currently
relatedness estimates for all individuals in the study.
Regarding the transfer of information, we have no doubt that individuals will learn about the
nce of a novel food patch through other individuals from distances of greater than 1 m (or 5 m, as we
n this study) and we also agree that the dissemination of information will depend on the kind of
ation that is transferred—this is why we chose to create networks based on both proximity and
ing data. However, as this was not clear in our manuscript, we have now added a clarification in the
uction LL72-73: “However, we still know very little about which behavioural measures of association
ndicate information transmission opportunities, nor whether the type of behavioural measure matters
e complexity of information that has to be transferred.”
aper is well written, the methods appropriate and the analyses thorough, but the presented results are
neral not unexpected. I therefore have problems in recognizing what the “point” of the paper is.
ps the authors can pinpoint the peculiarities of their results a bit more and why they go beyond what
wn about baboon social networks.
ONSE: We thank the reviewer for the positive comments about our manuscript. In response to the
ent about the “point” of the manuscript, we have made several changes to highlight the novelty and
alisability of our findings: (1) we explain more fully in the Introduction that we chose to study baboons
use not only do we have a rich social dataset with which to create the social networks, we also have
ates of information acquisition phenotypes LL85-86, 92-94; (2) we have moved our discussion of the
ations of our findings to modelling information transmission earlier in the Discussion, before we
der the peculiarities of the baboon system LL338-361; and (3) we have developed our ‘information
otype framework’ further in the Discussion LL319-337. We hope that by providing additional
ation about our nascent ideas for this field, the generalisability of the manuscript will be more
ent.
g, A. J., Isaac, N. J. B., Cowlishaw, G. 2009 Ecological, social, and reproductive factors shape
cer-scrounger dynamics in baboons. Behav Ecol. 20, 1039-1049. (DOI 10.1093/beheco/arp095)
rshall, H. H., Carter, A. J., Coulson, T., Rowcliffe, J. M., Cowlishaw, G. 2012 Exploring foraging
ons in a social primate using discrete choice models. Am Nat. 180, 481-495.
Appendix B
Dr. Alecia Carter
Junior Research Fellow
Large Animal Research Group
Department of Zoology
University of Cambridge
Prof Mike Bruford
Cardiff School of Biosciences,
The Sir Martin Evans Building,
Museum Avenue,
Cardiff, CF10 3AX
12 April 2015
We thank the reviewers for re-reviewing our submission, “Phenotypic assortment in wild primate networks:
implications for the dissemination of information” for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
In response to reviewer 2’s speculation, we have provided further justification that social information about
novel foods is likely to transfer through the baboons’ social networks in the Introduction. However, as we
have been cautious in our interpretation of our findings by stipulating that our predictions must be tested
(LL360-363, 439-440), we have not made any other substantial changes in response to this comment.
Our detailed responses to the reviewers’ comments are inserted after each comment below in blue text and
preceded by the word “RESPONSE”.
We thank you for accepting our manuscript for publication.
Yours sincerely,
Alecia Carter and co-authors
DETAILED RESPONSES TO REVIEWERS’ COMMENTS:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I have reviewed this paper before and I think the authors did a good revision and incorporated much of the
reviewers’ suggestions. The analyses of networks seem to be ok, but the I am still not convinced that a
baboon’s position within a grooming or proximity network will contribute much to its ability to use social
information about potentially new food. The potential for transmission of social information along a network
might be there, but it is not clear whether this plays a significant role in chacma baboons. Nevertheless, I
think the paper is scientifically sound and it might be interesting for the readers of RSOS.
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for the encouraging comments. Regarding the speculation about a
baboon’s social network position contributing or not to its use of social information about a new food, we
agree with the reviewer that this has not yet been tested in baboons. However, baboons learn socially
about novel foods from one another, and we think the prediction that they will learn from those with whom
they are socially affiliated is reasonable and in line with previous studies cited in the Introduction. We have
added this to the manuscript (LL92-93).
Minor comments:
Authors should have a look at Sigg H. 1980. Differentiation of female positions in hamadryas one-male
units. Z. Tierpsychol. 53:265-302, for the idea of different “roles” in a social unit.
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for the suggested literature; however, none of the authors have
access to the full text of this paper. What we have read in the abstract is suggestive of phenotype-limited
access to preferred social partners, which is an interesting idea. We will pursue this literature further as we
develop our ideas in this field.
Line 84: change “wild social networks” to “social networks of wild baboons” or something similar.
RESPONSE: Changed. L84
Society Open
