Dynamics of cilia length in left–right development
P. Pintado, P. Sampaio, B. Tavares, T. D. Montenegro-Johnson, D. J. Smith and S. S.
Lopes
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161102.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161102
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 29 December 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 3 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 6 February 2017
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160742.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It will be good if the authors included some supplementary movies supporting their data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this manuscript, Pintado et al. use over-expression of Arl13b to study the effect of abnormally
long cilia on KV fluid flow in the determination of left-right asymmetry in the zebrafish embryo.
They show that by over-expression of up to 400 pg of Arl13b-GFP mRNA in each embryo, there is
a substantial increase in KV cilia length. Despite this, the effect on organ situs is rather modest.
Using live imaging of cilia motility and mathematical modelling, they conclude that the long KV
cilia now beat in an altered pattern that does not result a major alteration in fluid flow within KV.
My view is that this is an interesting piece of study worthy of publication in Royal Society Open
Science after the following modifications:
a) Lu et al. (Dev Biol. 2015 Jan 15;397(2):225-36) have also shown that over-expression of
Arl13b-GFP causes KV cilia length to increase substantially. However, their paper has videos
showing that the lengthy KV cilia are barely motile. How does the over-expression levels of
Arl13b-GFP used in this paper differ from that used in Lu et al.?
b) Related to the point above, some videos showing motility of Arl13b-GFP over-expressing
KV cilia as well as wild-type control will be useful as supplementary information.
c) The authors must cite the paper from the Hamada lab (Nat Commun. 2012 Jan
10;3:622)which showed that fluid flow in the LRO in of mouse, the node, is also very resilient to
changes in cilia motility, and discuss the findings of this paper in the context of the present data.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The premise of this paper as stated at the end of third paragraph of the introduction "the
converse--that slightly longer cilia should produce much more flow--has not been tested
experimentally" is false. The impact of elongated cilia in Kupffer's vesicle has been studied
experimentally and was published in 2012 (Yuan, et al. 2012. Target-of-rapamycin complex 1
(Torc1) signaling modulates cilia size and function through protein synthesis regulation. PNAS).
This study found that longer KV cilia had a slower beat frequency (25.6 ± 3.4 Hz) as compared to
controls (42.1 ± 3.8 Hz). They also studied KV fluid flow dynamics and that KVs with longer cilia
3
"exhibited a [normal] circular, counter-clockwise bead motion but with a slower mean velocity of
7.0 ± 1.5 µm/s" as compared to controls (11.1 ± 2.3 µm/s).
The submitted manuscript by Pintado, et al requires re-writing to acknowledge previous work in
the field and then describe how their results are confirmatory or contradictory.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160742)
06-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Lopes:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160742 entitled "Dynamics of cilia length in left-right development" which
you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers
are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 05-Jun-2017. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Kevin Padian
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Based on the reviewers comments, we can not proceed with the manuscript at its current form.
However, if the authors can take the reviewers recommendations fully to properly evaluate what
has been done on this subject already and what is known/controversial, they could then evaluate
their results and conclusions as either producing new information/knowledge, confirmatory or
challenging exist views. We will be willing to reconsider such a new manuscript.
4
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
In this manuscript, Pintado et al. use over-expression of Arl13b to study the effect of abnormally
long cilia on KV fluid flow in the determination of left-right asymmetry in the zebrafish embryo.
They show that by over-expression of up to 400 pg of Arl13b-GFP mRNA in each embryo, there is
a substantial increase in KV cilia length. Despite this, the effect on organ situs is rather modest.
Using live imaging of cilia motility and mathematical modelling, they conclude that the long KV
cilia now beat in an altered pattern that does not result a major alteration in fluid flow within KV.
My view is that this is an interesting piece of study worthy of publication in Royal Society Open
Science after the following modifications:
a) Lu et al. (Dev Biol. 2015 Jan 15;397(2):225-36) have also shown that over-expression of
Arl13b-GFP causes KV cilia length to increase substantially. However, their paper has videos
showing that the lengthy KV cilia are barely motile. How does the over-expression levels of
Arl13b-GFP used in this paper differ from that used in Lu et al.?
b) Related to the point above, some videos showing motility of Arl13b-GFP over-expressing
KV cilia as well as wild-type control will be useful as supplementary information.
c) The authors must cite the paper from the Hamada lab (Nat Commun. 2012 Jan
10;3:622)which showed that fluid flow in the LRO in of mouse, the node, is also very resilient to
changes in cilia motility, and discuss the findings of this paper in the context of the present data.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The premise of this paper as stated at the end of third paragraph of the introduction "the
converse--that slightly longer cilia should produce much more flow--has not been tested
experimentally" is false. The impact of elongated cilia in Kupffer's vesicle has been studied
experimentally and was published in 2012 (Yuan, et al. 2012. Target-of-rapamycin complex 1
(Torc1) signaling modulates cilia size and function through protein synthesis regulation. PNAS).
This study found that longer KV cilia had a slower beat frequency (25.6 ± 3.4 Hz) as compared to
controls (42.1 ± 3.8 Hz). They also studied KV fluid flow dynamics and that KVs with longer cilia
"exhibited a [normal] circular, counter-clockwise bead motion but with a slower mean velocity of
7.0 ± 1.5 µm/s" as compared to controls (11.1 ± 2.3 µm/s).
The submitted manuscript by Pintado, et al requires re-writing to acknowledge previous work in
the field and then describe how their results are confirmatory or contradictory.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160742)
See Appendix A.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-161102.R0 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have successfully re-written this manuscript to put their results in context with
previously published findings. This revised version is now suitable for publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161102)
27-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Lopes
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-161102 entitled
"Dynamics of cilia length in left-right development" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email -- the referee has recommended acceptance,
and the Editor is in agreement, but would like to give you the opportunity to ensure that all the
required end sections below are included prior to acceptance.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
6
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161102
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 05-Feb-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
7
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have successfully re-written this manuscript to put their results in context with
previously published findings. This revised version is now suitable for publication.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161102.R1)
06-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Lopes,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Dynamics of cilia length in left-right
development" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Editor,
I would like to re-submit our manuscript entitled ‘Dynamics of cilia length in left-right development’ by
Petra Pintado, Pedro Sampaio, Bárbara Tavares, Thomas D. Montenegro-Johnson, David J. Smith and
myself to be considered for publication as an article in the Journal of the Royal Society Open.
We have carefully addressed the reviewers suggestions and included their comments below.
Rebuttal comments:
We have done our best to suit the reviewers comments and hope that it is now suitable for publication.
Thank you for re-considering the manuscript.
Referee#1
We thank referee#1 for these comments. We copied the questions below and provide answers.
a) Lu et al. (Dev Biol. 2015 Jan 15;397(2):225-36) have also shown that over-expression of Arl13b-GFP
causes KV cilia length to increase substantially. However, their paper has videos showing that the
lengthy KV cilia are barely motile. How does the over-expression levels of Arl13b-GFP used in this paper
differ from that used in Lu et al.?
Answer: In our hands the overexpression of up to 400 pg provides no major defects in the cilia and in
the fish larvae. We now provide movies from the cilia and photos from the larvae as evidence for these
statements. We did see defects in both cilia and larvae in over-expressions higher than 400 pg per
embryo. We did not use embryos injected with these higher concentrations in this study.
In an attempt to compare our results with those from Lu et al. we concluded that we cannot discern
which concentrations were used for which experiments in the article published by Lu et al. In particular,
we do not understand which experiment relates to their movie3 shown in the KV after overexpression of
Arl13b. This movie shows very sick cilia that we never observed in our hands. We discarded all the
larvae that were abnormal and used only healthy looking larva that derived from paired experimental
and control groups.
We cite the methods section from Lu et al. to explain our point ‘Some embryos were microinjected with
hsp70::Arl13b-GFP transgene were heat shocked at 37 °C for 1 h at 14 hpf.’ This treatment is very
different from our overexpression studies.
Other sentence states that ‘embryos were injected from different dosages of mRNA encoding Arl13b-GFP
(200 ng/µl, 300 ng/µl and 500 ng/µl; 0.75 nl per egg). So, if we compare our mRNA concentrations to
those used by Lu et al. we conclude that our 400 pg per embryo are equivalent to their 0,375 ng per
embryo (when using 500ng/ul concentration and injecting 0.75 nl per egg). However they also used
‘linearized plasmid containing the hsp70::Arl13b-GFP (50 ng/µl)’ which we did not use. Additionally, they
may also have used the transgenic line zebrafish strain that expresses the mouse Arl13b protein fused
C-terminally with GFP (Arl13b-GFP) from the bactin promoter, Tg(bactin2::Arl13b-gfp) (Borovina et al.,
2010), which we did not use due to highly variable penetrance in our hands.
b) Related to the point above, some videos showing motility of Arl13b-GFP over-expressing KV cilia as
well as wild-type control will be useful as supplementary information.
Answer: Thanks for this suggestion, we have now included such movies in supplementary information as
suggested by the referee.
c) The authors must cite the paper from the Hamada lab (Nat Commun. 2012 Jan 10;3:622) which
showed that fluid flow in the LRO in of mouse, the node, is also very resilient to changes in cilia motility,
and discuss the findings of this paper in the context of the present data.
Answer: Thank you for suggesting the discussion of this paper in light or our findings. The paper
mentioned by the referee#1 shows that the left-right markers, such as cerl2 and pitx2, are resilient to
changes in the number of motile cilia. In fact they show that with as little as 2 motile cilia (and
regardless of their position), cerl2 expression is still as in the wildtype situation (i.e stronger on the right
side). However, we do not think these authors show that the flow itself is resilient to the number of
motile cilia as referred by the referee#1. Instead, they clearly show in Figure 5, by PIV analysis that the
flow changes dramatically with the number of motile cilia in both pattern and intensity. Their point is
that despite those dramatic changes, in the mouse node there might be a highly sensitive system that
amplifies unidirectional slow flow signals and makes left-right markers very resilient. We thought about
this subject carefuly and understand that the crucial difference between mouse and zebrafish is that in
the mouse all cilia are "useful" in the sense that they are on the floor of the node, tilted to the posterior
and therefore contributing to a leftward flow (in a time averaged sense). The same cannot be said of the
zebrafish, as some cilia (eg. ventral pole cilia) are antagonistic to the desired flow (see our publications:
T.D Montenegro-Johnson, D.I. Baker, D.J. Smith and S.S. Lopes. Three-dimensional flow in Kupffer’s
Vesicle. J. Math Biol. (2016). doi: 10.1007/s00285-016-0967-7 and Smith Dj, Montenegro-Johnson T,
Lopes S.S. Organized chaos in Kupffer's vesicle: How a heterogeneous structure achieves consistent left-
right patterning. May-Jun;4(3):119-25. Bioarchitecture (2014). doi: 10.4161/19490992.2014.956593.).
So, in the zebrafish we care not only about number, but also about location of motile cilia. We have now
included the suggested reference and these remarks in the discussion of our manuscript when we
discuss the effect of cilia number. We think this new point has considerably improved the discussion
despite the focus of our manuscript being on cilia length.
Referee#2
We thank the referee#2 for bringing this important paper to our attention. We appologize for our
mistake and recognise the work is highly relevant to the present study; for a moderate (5 - 7 microns)
increase in cilium length, Yuan et al. find a dramatic decrease in flow speed from 11 microns per second
to 7 microns per second. However as the referee notes, the frequency of such cilia is also affected,
equally dramatically. Since the speed of microscale flow is proportional to driving frequency, the drop in
flow speed for S6k1 embryos can be thus explained by this drop in frequency.
In contrast, our study varies the length variable without significantly impacting the frequency. The
surprising slight drop flow speed (rather than the expected increase expected from having more length
of cilia driving the flow) is then explained by a change in the cilium beat pattern brought about by an
elastohydrodynamic instability - the beat pattern model in this new framework is matched to
experimental data, and the flow strength reduction is shown to be consistent with experimental data
from fluid mechanical modelling.
The following text has been added to the introduction:
Conversely, longer cilia should produce a stronger flow than observed in the WT. In a study of the
target-of-rapamycin (TOR) growth pathway, Yuan et al. (2012 Susanna please add to bibliography, and
check biology!) found that TOR complex 1 (Torc1) regulates ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6k1)
activity to influence cilium length; overexpressed S6k1 embryos displayed cilia with a mildly increased
mean length of 7 µm, compared to the WT mean length of a little over 5 µm. Through averaging the
path speeds of injected microbeads, Yuan et al. demonstrated a dramatic reduction in the counter-
clockwise bead trajectories from 11.1 ± 2.3 µm/s (WT) to 7.0 ± 1.5 µm/s (S6k1). However, in this
study the cilium length is not an isolated variable, rather the beat frequency of the longer S6k1 cilia of
29.8 ± 4.9 Hz is substantially (~30%) lower than the WT frequency of 42.1 ± 3.8 Hz. The
proportionality of flow speed with driving speed at microscopic scales thus provides a likely explanation
for the vast majority of the reduction in flow velocity to within experimental error, since 42.1/29.8 =
1.41, and 11.1/7.0 =1.58.
We thank you for considering this re-submission. We look forward to your evaluation. On behalf of all
the authors,
Yours sincerely,
Susana Lopes
Society Open
