Assessing the anti-fungal efficiency of filters coated with
zinc oxide nanoparticles
Stephen Decelis, Davide Sardella, Thomas Triganza, Jean-Pierre Brincat, Ruben Gatt and
Vasilis P. Valdramidis
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161032.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161032
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 January 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-161032.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this work the use of nanoparticles of zinc oxide for protecting air filters from mould growth
was studied. A preliminary study was presented, which needs further development as the use of
agar médium on the filters in order to simulate organic particles which may be retained in the
filters supporting fangal growth is an approximation which needs some confirmation.
Line 24, no optimisation was presented, just the efficacy was tested
Line 94-95, would this treatment affect filter performance?
Line 102-103, it would be better to refer to filters instead of ‘filter media’. At this point it is
missleading. Some information is required at this point on size of filters and appearance.
Lines 103-104, 10 samples are described but there are only 9 in table 1
Line 104, 3 replicates were used, please place it here
Table 1, define NA and revise lines layout
Line 131, ‘coated filters’ instead of ‘filters
Line 146-147, is this just a visual, qualitative reponse?
Line 148, 3 replicates were carried out. According to figures only growth and no-growth
situations were recorded. Did the three replicates always show the same result?
Line 152-163, a description of the meaning of each modulus would be wellcame
Figure 2, a) and b) are missing in the figure
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Main comments:
Introduction
L52-64. Authors need to motivate their decision for testing Zinc oxide nanoparticles instead of
Copper oxide.
L67-68. The authors need to include the importance of this contaminant for a more wide
geographical region than New Zealand.
L75-77. Is Penicillium expansum a potential contaminant for other type of fruits or only for pome
fruit? Please specify and give some figures to support its importance for the study.
L84-97. Authors need to provide an overview of the types of filters commonly used in industrial
environments and relate it with the part of the text in lines 30-51, as well as to motivate why they
have chosen these 2 type of filters to conduct this study.
Materials and methods
L100-101. The authors need to motivate why they have chosen these concentrations of ZnO
nanoparticles. They need to relate this info with the findings of 7-9 studies (see line 57).
L115. The authors need to provide explanation why they used aluminium block for mounting the
filters and why carbon tape (explaining the focus on materials, i.e., aluminium, carbon).
Discussion
L275-279. Authors suggest coating filters with nanoparticles in general for modification of air
quality. At a first step, they have to specify which nanoparticles are suggested (those studied in
this work) and avoid generalization. Additionally, there is nowhere clear in the manuscript the
relation between the tested filters (needlepunched and meltblown) with HEPA and HVAC
systems. However, a general conclusion has been made by using data coming from
needlepunched and meltblown filters to coating HEPA and HVAC air systems. Finally, the
suggested mechanism of antifungal action of ZnO coating is based on photocatalysis. However,
the physical location of filters in industrial environments does not allow them to be exposed to
light and therefore the photocatalytic ability cannot be supported. Please comment on this issue
and make it clear to the conclusion you provide to the reader. The intensity of light and other
parameters are not specified in the statement (L. 264-265). Please specify.
Overall, authors need to highlight what is the specific added value/novelty of this work in the
current literature.
Minor comments:
L.18, 134, 145 and 146. Use the correct symbol for Celsius degrees
L44. Leave space between ideal and environmental
L64. Leave space ‘particles (11)’
L57, 67 and 71. Leave space after references
L82. Leave space at R. stolonifera
L101, 104, 106 and 107. Leave space ‘suspensions were’, ‘discussed below’, ‘filters were’ and
‘dried before’
L121, 123 and 131. Leave space ‘rod. The’, ‘suspensions were’ and ‘of 1 cm2’
L158. Remove space at the beginning of the line
L190. Leave space ‘on needlepunched’
L301. Leave space ‘from the’
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161032)
10-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Valdramidis
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-161032 entitled
"Assessing the Anti-fungal Efficiency of Filters Coated with Zinc Oxide Nanoparticles" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161032
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-Mar-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
In this work the use of nanoparticles of zinc oxide for protecting air filters from mould growth
was studied. A preliminary study was presented, which needs further development as the use of
agar médium on the filters in order to simulate organic particles which may be retained in the
filters supporting fangal growth is an approximation which needs some confirmation.
Line 24, no optimisation was presented, just the efficacy was tested
Line 94-95, would this treatment affect filter performance?
Line 102-103, it would be better to refer to filters instead of ‘filter media’. At this point it is
missleading. Some information is required at this point on size of filters and appearance.
Lines 103-104, 10 samples are described but there are only 9 in table 1
Line 104, 3 replicates were used, please place it here
Table 1, define NA and revise lines layout
Line 131, ‘coated filters’ instead of ‘filters
Line 146-147, is this just a visual, qualitative reponse?
Line 148, 3 replicates were carried out. According to figures only growth and no-growth
situations were recorded. Did the three replicates always show the same result?
Line 152-163, a description of the meaning of each modulus would be wellcame
Figure 2, a) and b) are missing in the figure
7
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Main comments:
Introduction
L52-64. Authors need to motivate their decision for testing Zinc oxide nanoparticles instead of
Copper oxide.
L67-68. The authors need to include the importance of this contaminant for a more wide
geographical region than New Zealand.
L75-77. Is Penicillium expansum a potential contaminant for other type of fruits or only for pome
fruit? Please specify and give some figures to support its importance for the study.
L84-97. Authors need to provide an overview of the types of filters commonly used in industrial
environments and relate it with the part of the text in lines 30-51, as well as to motivate why they
have chosen these 2 type of filters to conduct this study.
Materials and methods
L100-101. The authors need to motivate why they have chosen these concentrations of ZnO
nanoparticles. They need to relate this info with the findings of 7-9 studies (see line 57).
L115. The authors need to provide explanation why they used aluminium block for mounting the
filters and why carbon tape (explaining the focus on materials, i.e., aluminium, carbon).
Discussion
L275-279. Authors suggest coating filters with nanoparticles in general for modification of air
quality. At a first step, they have to specify which nanoparticles are suggested (those studied in
this work) and avoid generalization. Additionally, there is nowhere clear in the manuscript the
relation between the tested filters (needlepunched and meltblown) with HEPA and HVAC
systems. However, a general conclusion has been made by using data coming from
needlepunched and meltblown filters to coating HEPA and HVAC air systems. Finally, the
suggested mechanism of antifungal action of ZnO coating is based on photocatalysis. However,
the physical location of filters in industrial environments does not allow them to be exposed to
light and therefore the photocatalytic ability cannot be supported. Please comment on this issue
and make it clear to the conclusion you provide to the reader. The intensity of light and other
parameters are not specified in the statement (L. 264-265). Please specify.
Overall, authors need to highlight what is the specific added value/novelty of this work in the
current literature.
Minor comments:
L.18, 134, 145 and 146. Use the correct symbol for Celsius degrees
L44. Leave space between ideal and environmental
L64. Leave space ‘particles (11)’
L57, 67 and 71. Leave space after references
L82. Leave space at R. stolonifera
L101, 104, 106 and 107. Leave space ‘suspensions were’, ‘discussed below’, ‘filters were’ and
‘dried before’
L121, 123 and 131. Leave space ‘rod. The’, ‘suspensions were’ and ‘of 1 cm2’
L158. Remove space at the beginning of the line
L190. Leave space ‘on needlepunched’
L301. Leave space ‘from the’
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161032)
See Appendix A.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161032.R1)
06-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Valdramidis,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Assessing the Anti-fungal Efficiency of
Filters Coated with Zinc Oxide Nanoparticles" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
University of Malta
The Editor
Royal Society Open Science
4th April 2017
Dear Editor,
On behalf of all the co-authors, I would like to thank you and the reviewers for evaluating our
manuscript RSOS-161032. After having considered the suggestions and comments made by
the reviewers, we are hereby submitting a revised version of our manuscript in which we
have attempted to address all the points raised. In particular:
1. In response to the Reviewer 1 first comment that:
‘In this work the use of nanoparticles of zinc oxide for protecting air filters from
mould growth was studied. A preliminary study was presented, which needs further
development as the use of agar médium on the filters in order to simulate organic
particles which may be retained in the filters supporting fangal growth is an
approximation which needs some confirmation.’
The authors appreciate the comments of the reviewer. It is true that this is a
preliminary study that was developed aiming at hastening the fungal growth onto the
surfaces of the coated filters by the use of nutritive media on the surface of the filters,
representing a worst case scenario. In order to make this clear, the following text was
added into the main manuscript:
“This would represent a worst case scenario for filters to support fungal growth.”
2. In response to the Reviewer 1 second comment that:
‘Line 24, no optimisation was presented, just the efficacy was tested’
The authors agree that the study focused on assessing efficacy than optimising the
filtration system. In order to amend this in the main manuscript, line 24 was changed
From:
“This work contributes to the optimization of conditions for filter coating with ZnO
nanoparticles aimed at inhibiting fungal growth.”
To:
“This work contributes to the assessment of the efficacy of filter coating with ZnO
nanopaticles aimed at inhibiting fungal growth”
3. In response to the Reviewer 1 third comment that:
‘Line 94-95, would this treatment affect filter performance?’
The authors would like to point out that autoclaving was only performed on the
samples which were used to perform the microbial tests (which growth is not affected
by the mechanical properties of the filter material), and not to the samples which were
mechanically tested. Therefore, the reported mechanical properties are of the filters
To make this clear in the text, the following text was changed From:
“Both filters were autoclaved at 135oC for 3 minutes to eliminate any microbial
contaminants that might be present”
To:
“The filter samples that were used for the anti-fungal tests (each cut to a size of 10
mm by 10 mm, see below) were autoclaved at 135oC for 3 minutes to eliminate any
microbial contaminants that might be present. On the other hand, the filter samples
which were used to conduct the mechanical tests (each cut to a size of 20 mm by 80
mm) were not subjected to autoclaving.”
4. In response to the Reviewer 1 fourth comment that:
‘Line 102-103, it would be better to refer to filters instead of ‘filter media’.
At this point it is missleading. Some information is required at this point on size of filters and
appearance.’
The authors revised the term filter media to filters throughout all the document to
avoid any misinterpretation. More information is now added in the main text by
changing the following text from:
" Two types were used; Needlepunched HS-Alpha Pak (efficiency 40 – 60%, <U+0394>P=40-
50 Pa), henceforth referred to as needlepunched filter and Meltblown HS-Beta Pak
(efficiency 65 – 95%, <U+0394>P=90-150 Pa), henceforth referred to as meltblown filter"
To:
“Two types were used; Needlepunched HS-Alpha Pak (efficiency 40 – 60%, <U+0394>P=40-
50 Pa) made of synthetic fibre fleece and chosen for its maximum filtration abilities at
minimal dimensions, henceforth referred to as needlepunched filter and Meltblown
HS-Beta Pak (efficiency 65 – 95%, <U+0394>P=90-150 Pa) made of fiberglass paper and
chosen for its properties as a robust dust filter, henceforth referred to as meltblown
filter”
5. In response to the Reviewer 1 fifth comment that:
‘Lines 103-104, 10 samples are described but there are only 9 in table 1’
We thank the reviewer for noting this editing mistake, which has was now corrected
to 9.
6. In response to the Reviewer 1 sixth comment that:
‘Line 104, 3 replicates were used, please place it here’
This has been revised and reads :
“More specifically, for each of the filters tested (Needlepunched and Meltblown) 9
different samples were prepared in triplicate”
7. In response to the Reviewer 1 seventh comment that:
‘Table 1, define NA and revise lines layout’
Lines layout was revised (vertical lines were removed) and NA: not available is
reported.
‘Line 131, ‘coated filters’ instead of ‘filters’
This is now revised
9. In response to the Reviewer 1 ninth comment that:
‘Line 146-147, is this just a visual, qualitative reponse?’
It is indeed qualitative response similar to previously published work in the area
growth/no growth studies. For example refer to Tassou et al., 2009 on the assessing
growth/no growth boundaries of Aspergillus carbonarius. In order to highlight this,
the following has been added to the main text:
“…for similar approaches refer to Tassou et al. (2009)”
10. In response to the Reviewer 1 tenth comment that:
‘Line 148, 3 replicates were carried out. According to figures only growth and no-growth situations
were recorded. Did the three replicates always show the same result?’
The three replicates have shown the same results. Adding the following text in the
captions of Figures 2 to 5 highlighted this.
“Note that the same response was obtained from all the repeats of the same
experiment.”
11. In response to the Reviewer 1 eleventh comment that:
‘Line 152-163, a description of the meaning of each modulus would be wellcame’
This information is now incorporated as follows:
“…the Young’s modulus (which describes the relation between stress and strain) and
Poisson’s ratio (which describes the change in the transverse strain in response to an
axial strain)”
12. In response to the Reviewer 1 twelfth comment that:
‘Figure 2, a) and b) are missing in the figure’
The notation has been revised to left/right so reader can follow up easily.
13. In response to the Reviewer 2 first comment that:
‘L52-64. Authors need to motivate their decision for testing Zinc oxide nanoparticles instead of Copper
oxide.’
More information about our motivation for the choice of these nanoparticles is
provided as follows:
“Zinc oxide nanoparticles are very much important due to their utilization in gas
sensors, biosensors, cosmetics, drug-delivery systems, etc (7).”
14. In response to the Reviewer 2 second comment that:
‘L67-68. The authors need to include the importance of this contaminant for a more wide geographical
region than New Zealand.’
and Reviewer 2 third comment that:
‘L75-77. Is Penicillium expansum a potential contaminant for other type of fruits or only for pome
fruit? Please specify and give some figures to support its importance for the study.’
relation to several global cases and for a range of different fruits. Furthermore the
importance of these contaminant is given in relation to different fruits (i.e., pome and
stone fruits) as well as in relation to storage conditions. The text in the main
manuscript now reads:
“Rhizopus stolonifer is a cosmopolitan fungus located mainly in warehouses on the
conditioning material and on stored fruits, especially strawberry, apple, plum, peach
and pear (13,14). Rhizopus stolonifer is responsible for Rhizopus rot, sometimes also
referred as "soft rot" or "whiskers rot", on peaches, plums and nectarines (15).
Rhizopus rot, affects mainly injured, freeze-damaged and overripe fruits (16).
Rhizopus stolonifer is one of the most important postharvest stone fruit decay agent in
Europe (17). There are also reports of Rhizopus rot on jackfruit (18) and on papaya
(19) and on sweetpotato (20). This fungus is a very aggressive wound parasite which
is difficult to control once fruit ripens (21). Rhizopus rot is not anymore efficiently
controlled by registered fungicides (17) and, if the storage temperature is higher than
5°C, the rot spreads rapidly from the infected to adjacent fruits. Dormant spores of
Rhizopus stolonifer , isolated from peach fruit, were found to be resistant to chilling
temperatures as low as -1°C (22). A low temperature strain of Rhizopus stolonifer
was also observed in laboratory by Sommer (1989) (15). Recent reports of cold-
resistant Rhizopus stolonifer strains have also been reported (23) where this fungus is
the main causative agent of strawberry leak and it is able to grow and colonise this
fruit at about 3°C.”
and
“Penicillium expansum is also normally found in stone fruit only after a week in
storage at 0°C (15). Peach fruit are easily infected by Penicillium expansum, causing
blue mould rot in the fruit and leading to considerable postharvest losses (24). P.
expansum's infection can also occur on ripe and overripe oranges under particular
temperature conditions (25).”
15. In response to the Reviewer 2 fourth comment that:
‘L84-97. Authors need to provide an overview of the types of filters commonly used in industrial
environments and relate it with the part of the text in lines 30-51, as well as to motivate why they have
chosen these 2 type of filters to conduct this study.’
An overview of type of filters is presented in Lines 33-41 in which reference is also
now made to a recent review by the authors of the manuscript that summarizes
advantage and disadvantages. The motivation for choosing these two types of filters is
also given, see point 4 above.
16. In response to the Reviewer 2 fifth comment that:
‘L100-101. The authors need to motivate why they have chosen these concentrations of ZnO
nanoparticles. They need to relate this info with the findings of 7-9 studies (see line 57)’
The concentration was selected based on the previous referred works. This
information is now provided within the text as follows:
namely 0.012M and 0.12M within the range of previously reported studies on the
antifungal properties of ZnO (8)”
17. In response to the Reviewer 2 sixth comment that:
‘L115. The authors need to provide explanation why they used aluminium block for mounting the
filters and why carbon tape (explaining the focus on materials, i.e., aluminium, carbon).’
This is part of a standard protocol used for SEM, where these materials are used due
to their ability to conduct electrons and thus resulting in better images. This
information is now provided as follows:
“The filters were mounted on an aluminium block using carbon tape (as conductive
substrates) based on commonly used approaches.”
18. In response to the Reviewer 2 first part of the seventh comment that:
‘L275-279. Authors suggest coating filters with nanoparticles in general for
modification of air quality. At a first step, they have to specify which nanoparticles
are suggested (those studied in this work) and avoid generalization. Additionally,
there is nowhere clear in the manuscript the relation between the tested filters
(needlepunched and meltblown) with HEPA and HVAC systems. However, a general
conclusion has been made by using data coming from needlepunched and meltblown
filters to coating HEPA and HVAC air systems.’
We have re-worded the text from:
“Nanoparticle coated filters may therefore be good candidates for coating various
filters needed for modification of air quality, including HEPA and also filters used in
HVAC systems”.
To:
“ZnO nanoparticle coated filters may therefore be good candidates for coating various
filters needed to remove micro-organisms from the air”
19. In response to the Reviewer 2 second part of the seventh comment that:
‘Finally, the suggested mechanism of antifungal action of ZnO coating is based on photocatalysis.
However, the physical location of filters in industrial environments does not allow them to be exposed
to light and therefore the photocatalytic ability cannot be supported. Please comment on this issue and
make it clear to the conclusion you provide to the reader. The intensity of light and other parameters
are not specified in the statement (L. 264-265). Please specify.’
The authors do not claim that the antifungal action of ZnO is based on photocatalysis.
This photocatalytic ability is related to specific nanoparticles likes Titanium oxide.
Therefore, the sentence:
“Palladium-Modified Nitrogen-Doped Titanium Oxide in visible 265 light led to
photocatalytic killing of macroconidia of Fusarium graminearum by such a
mechanism (24). 266 Physical damage by abrasion is also proposed (11)”
readers. The effect of ZnO is purely chemical.
20. In response to the Reviewer 2 eighth comment that:
‘Overall, authors need to highlight what is the specific added value/novelty of this work in the current
literature’
The highlight of this work is now presented by the addition of the following text in
the discussion section of the article:
“The identification of such commercial filters that can be used for coating
nanoparticles, while preventing the growth of fungi without affecting the mechanical
properties of the filter are of importance for novel industrial applications.”
21. The minor comments identified by Reviewer two have also been addressed as
follows:
L.18, 134, 145 and 146. Use the correct symbol for Celsius degrees; This has now been corrected
L44. Leave space between ideal and environmental; This has been corrected
L64. Leave space ‘particles (11); This has been corrected
L57, 67 and 71. Leave space after references; This has been corrected
L82. Leave space at R. stolonifera; This has been corrected
L101, 104, 106 and 107. Leave space ‘suspensions were’, ‘discussed below’, ‘filters
were’ and ‘dried before’; This has been corrected
L121, 123 and 131. Leave space ‘rod. The’, ‘suspensions were’ and ‘of 1 cm2’; This
has been corrected
L158. Remove space at the beginning of the line; This has been corrected
L190. Leave space ‘on needlepunched’; This has been corrected
L301. Leave space ‘from the’; This has been corrected
We hope that through these changes, the manuscript is now of sufficient quality to merit
publication in Royal Society Open Science. Please do not hesitate to contact us should any
additional changes be necessary.
Yours truly,
Vasilis Valdramidis, Ruben Gatt (corresponding authors) et al.
Society Open
