Supervised learning from human performance at the
computationally hard problem of optimal traffic signal
control on a network of junctions
Simon Box
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140211.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140211
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 November 2014 appears in chronological order.
This manuscript was transferred in from another journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140211.R0(Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I was not able to find a link to the supporting data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors have address most of my concerns.
I am happy to see that they have decided to split the article in many pieces and improve the
presentation of results and analyses.
The journal asks to publish the data used in the paper but I failed to see where that data is made
available.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Michael Masson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The author has adequately addressed the concerns I raised in my review of the original version of
this manuscript and I think this new version is ready for publication.
_______________
Michael Masson
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140211)
10-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Box
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140211 entitled
"Supervised learning from human performance at the computationally hard problem of optimal
traffic signal control on a network of junctions" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
3
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". Main documents should
include the following sections at the end of the paper, prior to the references section:
• Ethics statement - where relevant
• Data accessibility statement - where relevant
• Competing interests statement
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
