Nonlinear neutral inclusions: assemblages of coated
ellipsoids
Silvia Jiménez Bolaños and Bogdan Vernescu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140394.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140394
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 25 February 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal following peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140394.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes. N/A.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper considers a problem of interest to mathematical continuum mechanics and materials
science. The authors show that a certain well-known and useful construction (neutral inclusions
of coated ellipsoids) can be partially extended to non-linear materials.
Although the results are partial they will be of interest and value to workers in the field and I
recommend publication. However the main limitation (that unlike in the linear case, the
construction depends on the value of the applied field) should be more clearly highlighted, both
in the abstract and in the main body of the paper. Thus I suggest that:
1. A sentence be added to the abstract making clear that the proposed construction is neutral
(only) for a given applied electric field.
2. The sentence (to this effect) immediately preceding Remark 3.3 be given more prominence, for
example by being moved to the end of the paper.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Liping Liu)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
None
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I have reviewed the paper before. Publication is recommended.
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
All supporting data is made available.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140394)
16-Feb-2015
Dear Dr Jimenez-Bolanos
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140394 entitled
"Nonlinear Neutral Inclusions: Assemblages of Coated Ellipsoids." has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
4
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 25-Feb-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140394)
See Appendix B.
Review on the manuscript
’Nonlinear Neutral Inclusions: Assemblages of Coated Ellipsoids’
by Silvia Jimenez-Bolanos and Bogdan Vernescu
submitted to Royal Society Open Science (RSOS-140394)
s article is concerned with the analysis of inclusion problems arising in non-linear
erials. The results show that by adequate coating of an inclusion with a thin layer
linear material, the effective mechanical or electrical properties even of a non-linear
erial remain unchanged by the inclusion. The inclusion problem in general is of great
nological importance and lies within the scope of Royal Society Open Science.
article is well written. All mathematical statements are correct. The proofs are ade-
te and free of errors. However, the methods are very similar to the 2013 article by the
e authors. Large parts of the submitted paper can be linked directly to arguments of
previous work. In fact, the mathematical approach is not new but ranges back to the
sical articles by Hashin and Shtrikman from 1962. Furthermore, the findings of this
cle are of low practical importance and add little new insights to the investigations of
soidal inclusions by Milton in 1981, 2002 and to the 2013 article by the same authors.
onsequence, the results do not justify publication in the high-level journal Royal
iety Open Science and I recommend to reject the paper.
Society Open
