A longitudinal study of phenotypic changes in early
domestication of house mice
Madeleine Geiger, Marcelo R. Sánchez-Villagra and Anna K. Lindholm
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172099.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172099
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 31 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172099.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This study takes advantage of a serendipitous result, which was that within 15 generations,
commensal house mice in a relatively high-density population that were regularly handled
evolved two features of the domestication syndrome. Because the study was not designed to test
among alternative hypotheses, the variable(s) responsible for shorter heads and more white
patches are uncertain. The authors suggest that there was selection for tameness towards
humans, which is very plausible, but they cannot rule out the effect of population density or
other influences associated with the shift from the wild to a barn.
Fig. 1 indicates that the main drop in pup head length occurred in the first year only (2007-2008).
There was a later decrease (2010 – 2014) but a subsequent increase (2013 – 2016) means that
overall there is no difference in head length between 2008 and 2016. Thus the supposed effect is
entirely due to data from the initial year of measurement. This weakens the result and raises the
possibility of some other influences, e.g. changes in measurement technique or a rapid adaptation
to an unusually good diet.
I am unclear about the set-up. (1) If mice can freely come and go from the study barn, why were
there no mice initially? (until 12 were introduced in 2002). Was the new population established
simply because it was given ad lib food? (2) What does “regular experimental handling” mean?
The fact of a high capture success, and almost complete monitoring of pups, should be reported
in the paper, not just to reviewers, so that readers can understand more about about what is
meant by “regular handling.” In fact, more needs to be said on that point, to clarify how often in a
lifetime a mouse can expect to be handled, for how long at a time, and how roughly.
NB The uncertainty regarding possible wild immigration into the barn suggests that the influence
of the experimental set-up could be even stronger than inferred.
Manuscript line numbers
149-165 This first paragraph of the Discussion is careful not to claim that selection for tameness
caused the observed changes, but it strongly implies that that is what happened. A better
approach would be to consider alternative hypotheses for the change, especially due to the
presumed increase in population density.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Melinda Zeder)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have done a careful and comprehensive job of addressing my own and other
reviewer's concerns - mostly consisting of a call for more information about the population and
the experimental protocol. As I indicated in my initial review this is an important contribution to
the study of human/animal relationships and warrants publication in Open Science.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172099)
19-Jan-2018
Dear Mr Geiger
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172099 entitled
"A longitudinal study of phenotypic changes in early domestication of house mice" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172099
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Jan-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
5
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Alexander Ophir (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Alexander Ophir):
Dear Dr. Geiger,
I have now received the reviews from two experts in the field, one of which served as a reviewer
for the manuscript when it was under consideration at Biology Letters. Both reviewers indicated
that your study was interesting and had several strengths. One reviewer would like to see some
additional detail on how the study was carried out and provided a few comments that I believe
you should be able to address. Once you have adjusted your manuscript and/or responded to
these points, I believe your paper will be suitable for publication in RSOS.
Thank you for your contribution to the journal and congratulations on a nice study.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This study takes advantage of a serendipitous result, which was that within 15 generations,
commensal house mice in a relatively high-density population that were regularly handled
evolved two features of the domestication syndrome. Because the study was not designed to test
among alternative hypotheses, the variable(s) responsible for shorter heads and more white
patches are uncertain. The authors suggest that there was selection for tameness towards
humans, which is very plausible, but they cannot rule out the effect of population density or
other influences associated with the shift from the wild to a barn.
Fig. 1 indicates that the main drop in pup head length occurred in the first year only (2007-2008).
There was a later decrease (2010 – 2014) but a subsequent increase (2013 – 2016) means that
overall there is no difference in head length between 2008 and 2016. Thus the supposed effect is
entirely due to data from the initial year of measurement. This weakens the result and raises the
possibility of some other influences, e.g. changes in measurement technique or a rapid adaptation
to an unusually good diet.
I am unclear about the set-up. (1) If mice can freely come and go from the study barn, why were
there no mice initially? (until 12 were introduced in 2002). Was the new population established
simply because it was given ad lib food? (2) What does “regular experimental handling” mean?
The fact of a high capture success, and almost complete monitoring of pups, should be reported
in the paper, not just to reviewers, so that readers can understand more about about what is
meant by “regular handling.” In fact, more needs to be said on that point, to clarify how often in a
lifetime a mouse can expect to be handled, for how long at a time, and how roughly.
NB The uncertainty regarding possible wild immigration into the barn suggests that the influence
of the experimental set-up could be even stronger than inferred.
Manuscript line numbers
149-165 This first paragraph of the Discussion is careful not to claim that selection for tameness
caused the observed changes, but it strongly implies that that is what happened. A better
approach would be to consider alternative hypotheses for the change, especially due to the
presumed increase in population density.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have done a careful and comprehensive job of addressing my own and other
reviewer's concerns - mostly consisting of a call for more information about the population and
7
the experimental protocol. As I indicated in my initial review this is an important contribution to
the study of human/animal relationships and warrants publication in Open Science.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172099)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172099.R1)
31-Jan-2018
Dear Mr Geiger,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A longitudinal study of phenotypic
changes in early domestication of house mice" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
8
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Editors, dear Dr Ophir, dear referees,
Many thanks for your positive feedback and your helpful comments. Please find our answers to the
irst referee’s comments below in bold (as we understood, referee 2 suggested no further edits). The
newest edits to the manuscript text – including the additional requested details on our study – are
highlighted in red. An additional manuscript with the same edits but no red font has been re-
ubmitted as well.
Yours sincerely,
The authors
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This study takes advantage of a serendipitous result, which was that within 15 generations,
commensal house mice in a relatively high-density population that were regularly handled evolved
wo features of the domestication syndrome. Because the study was not designed to test among
alternative hypotheses, the variable(s) responsible for shorter heads and more white patches are
uncertain. The authors suggest that there was selection for tameness towards humans, which is very
plausible, but they cannot rule out the effect of population density or other influences associated
with the shift from the wild to a barn.
Fig. 1 indicates that the main drop in pup head length occurred in the first year only (2007-2008).
There was a later decrease (2010 – 2014) but a subsequent increase (2013 – 2016) means that
overall there is no difference in head length between 2008 and 2016. Thus the supposed effect is
entirely due to data from the initial year of measurement. This weakens the result and raises the
possibility of some other influences, e.g. changes in measurement technique or a rapid adaptation to
an unusually good diet.
The measurement technique was the same throughout all years and we have also controlled for
observer effects (see Materials and Methods). Adaptation to a new food source in the study
ituation is a possibility, but could not explain this increase of head length in the later years of the
tudy. Rather, we hypothesize that genetic drift might be an alternative hypothesis for this
patterns. We have now added a discussion on this issue on L. 210-216:
“Genetic drift is a possible explanation for some or all of the changes in head length, especially for
he later increases (Fig. 1). Furthermore, morphological alterations of the skull due to adaptations
o different food items [47] in the study population (see Methods) relative to the source
populations (probably spill overs from harvest and fodder on farms), cannot be ruled out as a
ource of the observed decrease in head length, but cannot explain the reversed trend in later years
as well. Further work is required to rule out these alternative explanations.”
am unclear about the set-up. (1) If mice can freely come and go from the study barn, why were
here no mice initially? (until 12 were introduced in 2002). Was the new population established
imply because it was given ad lib food?
nitially, the study barn was a shed with no mice living in it whatsoever. The study population was
established with the 12 specimens reported in the text (see also König and Lindholm 2012) and
hese founder individuals reproduced successfully. We now added some text on L. 54-59 to make
his clearer:
“The study population was established in 2002 in an uninhabited barn in Illnau, Switzerland, with
he introduction of 12 wild caught individuals [11] trapped in cattle and sheep sheds at two
neighbouring small working farms. Mice in these small working farms are considered as unwanted
pests. The founder individuals reproduced successfully and the study population increased
onsiderably in size and now comprises 250 – 430 individuals at any given time [12].”
2) What does “regular experimental handling” mean? The fact of a high capture success, and almost
complete monitoring of pups, should be reported in the paper, not just to reviewers, so that readers
can understand more about what is meant by “regular handling.” In fact, more needs to be said on
hat point, to clarify how often in a lifetime a mouse can expect to be handled, for how long at a
ime, and how roughly.
We added an estimate of how often, how long, and how rough every mouse is handled in a
ifetime to the manuscript on L. 72 – 88:
“All nest boxes and hiding places are monitored at least every 10 – 13 days. Every mouse is usually
irst handled during these controls and subsequently a second time when pups reach 13 days of
postnatal age ( ±1 day, see [11] and Supplementary Information 1: Table S1 for details) to record
ex, body weight, and head length. Some pups were first discovered at the age of 13 ±1 day, and
hen were handled once rather than twice as a pup. Every 7 weeks, on average, comprehensive
apture events are conducted in which all pups are handled, and all subadults and adults are
aptured and inspected in jars [11]. During these events, newly mature adults are also handled,
nspected for white patches of fur and implanted with transponders [11]. Thus, in an average
mouse lifespan in the study population of 196 days (28 weeks) [14], mice are handled 2 – 3 times
and captured an additional 3 – 4 times. Capture success of transpondered adults is about 80% per
apture event, thus some mice will be captured less often. This contrasts with virtually no human
handling at all in sympatric commensal house mouse populations. Handling procedures correspond
o good laboratory practice, i.e., mice are held gently but firmly in the hand and no mice are
njured during the handling procedure. Duration of handling varies with age and temper of
ndividuals and comprises 1 – 2 minutes per individual.”
NB The uncertainty regarding possible wild immigration into the barn suggests that the influence of
he experimental set-up could be even stronger than inferred.
We agree and added a note on that in the manuscript on L. 168-172:
“We hypothesise that our procedures of regular capture and handling of mice and exposure to
humans have led to the dispersal of anthropophobic mice from the study population, while more
anthropophilic ones have remained and bred (or possibly immigrated from other populations,
which would suggest that the influence of the experimental set-up would be even stronger than
nferred).”
Manuscript line numbers
149-165 This first paragraph of the Discussion is careful not to claim that selection for tameness
caused the observed changes, but it strongly implies that that is what happened. A better approach
would be to consider alternative hypotheses for the change, especially due to the presumed increase
n population density.
t was not our intention to avoid the notion of selection for tameness as a cause for the observed
changes. We therefore edited this part of the text accordingly and also added a notion on
alternative explanations (L. 165-166), as more extensively discussed in the last paragraph of the
discussion:
“The increase in the occurrence of white fur patches in adults (Fig. 2) and the decrease in absolute
and relative head length and body size in young mice (Fig. 1) in our study demonstrates that within
ew generations detectable phenotypic changes can occur that are known from many different
domesticated species and are part of the so-called ‘domestication syndrome’ [6,7,34,35]. However,
we cannot exclude that these phenotypic changes, consistent with selection for tameness, have
arisen by other processes.”
Further, we have now expanded this last part of the discussion on alternative explanations in order
o be more thorough (see answer to first comment). However, as we explain in different parts of
he text (e.g. L. 57-61), population density in the study population is within the range of natural
populations and therefore we do not assume that density increase has an influence on our results:
“The founder individuals reproduced successfully and the study population increased considerably
n size and now comprises 250 – 430 individuals at any given time [12]. The floor area of the study
barn is 72m2, resulting in 3.5 – 6 mice/m2 in the barn, a density that is below the 10 mice/m2 that
an occur in stable, commensal house mouse populations [13].”
Society Open
