Assessing the use of mobile phone data to describe
recurrent mobility patterns in spatial epidemic models
Cecilia Panigutti, Michele Tizzoni, Paolo Bajardi, Zbigniew Smoreda and Vittoria Colizza
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160950.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160950
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 March 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160950.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrea Rinaldo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
As I wrote in my attached remarks (where very minor clarifications are suggested), this is an
interesting and timely paper on a very hot topic where the expertise shown is quite remarkable.
Kudos! (Appendix A.)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript, “Assessing the use of mobile phone data to describe recurrent mobility patterns
in spatial epidemic models,” by Panigutti et al. describes a simulation based assessment of the
differences between influenza-like-illness outbreaks spreading on social networks derived from
census workflow data and those derived from cell phone data. As the authors discuss, there is a
large, and growing literature, and the costs/benefits associated with different kinds of mobility
data for spatial epidemiology. However, there have been few more generalized studies focusing
on how different networks arising from different data sets can lead to different outbreak
dynamics. As a result, this paper is well timed. Nevertheless, the manuscript would benefit from
an expanded discussion of the existing literature and analysis of the model results. I hope the
following questions and suggestions will improve the manuscript:
Introduction-
1.) There are two additional papers I am familiar with on how mobile phone data are being
leveraged outside of spatial epi.
Martinez-Cesena, E. A., Mancarella, P., Ndiaye, M., & Schläpfer, M. (2015). Using mobile phone
data for electricity infrastructure planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1504.03899.
3
Schläpfer, M., Bettencourt, L. M., Grauwin, S., Raschke, M., Claxton, R., Smoreda, Z., ... & Ratti, C.
(2014). The scaling of human interactions with city size. Journal of the Royal Society Interface,
11(98), 20130789.
2.) Line 26 - The authors state, "..which have been shown to perform poorly in some developing
settings..." and cite two papers. My understanding of the first cited paper, 12 Wesolowski et al., is
that there findings had more to do with a specific pattern of large-scale human movement, as
opposed to just being an issue with a "developing country." If you agree, I would suggest
modifying your description to better reflect their findings.
Methods-
1.) When performing the renormalization based on cell provider coverage, is it possible that other
biases might be involved, which could effect network structure? For example, does the sample
fraction vary by socioeconomic indicators at the commune or district level? Age distribution?
etc.? Trying to analyze and/or correct for these may be beyond the scope of this analysis, but
should at least be discussed as potential explanations for any differences found between census
and cell-based networks.
2.) For the model evaluation/selection piece, did you consider using alternative procedures such
as regularization via something like lasso or ridge penalties and/or performing model selection
based on the performance on held-out data, i.e. cross-validation?
3.) For AIC model selection did you use forward or reverse model selection? See citation below
for a review of potential issues associated with step-wise-like selection using AIC.
Whittingham, M. J., Stephens, P. A., Bradbury, R. B., & Freckleton, R. P. (2006). Why do we still
use stepwise modelling in ecology and behaviour?. Journal of animal ecology, 75(5), 1182-1189.
4.) Did you consider comparing the resulting correlation matrix in disease prevalence across the
simulated outbreaks to influenza surveillance data from France?
Results-
1.) line 203 - "splayed a highly variable similarity" is confusing. Do you mean the degree of
similarity between outbreaks on the two networks, census and mobile phone, varied?
2.) Regarding arrival times, did you compare the networks using the similarity in message
passing centralities? At least on a tree, or locally tree-like parts of the graph, this would be an
exact answer to risk differences.
Karrer, B., & Newman, M. E. (2010). Message passing approach for general epidemic models.
Physical Review E, 82(1), 016101.
3.) What other properties varied by network? Outbreak size? The speed of spread? etc.?
Discussion-
1.) It would be helpful to expand on how some of the modeling assumptions, e.g., mass-action
mixing within nodes and random censoring to normalize the population sizes, might bias our
interpretation of the results.
2.) How do your results compare to and advance beyond Tizzoni et al. 2014?
Tizzoni, M., Bajardi, P., Decuyper, A., King, G. K. K., Schneider, C. M., Blondel, V., ... & Colizza,
V. (2014). On the use of human mobility proxies for modeling epidemics. PLoS Comput Biol,
10(7), e1003716.
4
3.) There is a vast literature on differences/similarities between census and mobile phone
mobility patters. Are there lessons or findings from that literature that relate to your results? For
example,
Becker, R., Cáceres, R., Hanson, K., Isaacman, S., Loh, J. M., Martonosi, M., ... & Volinsky, C.
(2013). Human mobility characterization from cellular network data. Communications of the
ACM, 56(1), 74-82.
4.) There are a few additional papers on mobility and disease, which should probably be
discussed.
Oliver, N., Matic, A., & Frias-Martinez, E. (2015). Mobile Network data for public health:
opportunities and challenges. Frontiers in public health, 3.
Perez-Saez, J., Mari, L., Bertuzzo, E., Casagrandi, R., Sokolow, S. H., De Leo, G. A., ... &
Karambiri, H. (2015). A theoretical analysis of the geography of schistosomiasis in Burkina Faso
highlights the roles of human mobility and water resources development in disease transmission.
PLoS Negl Trop Dis, 9(10), e0004127.
Wesolowski, A., O’Meara, W. P., Eagle, N., Tatem, A. J., & Buckee, C. O. (2015). Evaluating spatial
interaction models for regional mobility in Sub-Saharan Africa. PLOS Comput Biol, 11(7),
e1004267.
Wesolowski, A., Buckee, C. O., Engø-Monsen, K., & Metcalf, C. J. E. (2016). Connecting mobility
to infectious diseases: the promise and limits of mobile phone data. Journal of Infectious Diseases,
214(suppl 4), S414-S420.
Minor comment-
1.) There are a number of typos throughout the manuscript, which should be corrected.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160950)
13-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Tizzoni,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Assessing the use of mobile phone data to describe recurrent
mobility patterns in spatial epidemic models") have now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 08-Mar-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
5
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160950
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
6
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
As I wrote in my attached remarks (where very minor clarifications are suggested), this is an
interesting and timely paper on a very hot topic where the expertise shown is quite remarkable.
Kudos!
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The manuscript, “Assessing the use of mobile phone data to describe recurrent mobility patterns
in spatial epidemic models,” by Panigutti et al. describes a simulation based assessment of the
differences between influenza-like-illness outbreaks spreading on social networks derived from
census workflow data and those derived from cell phone data. As the authors discuss, there is a
large, and growing literature, and the costs/benefits associated with different kinds of mobility
data for spatial epidemiology. However, there have been few more generalized studies focusing
on how different networks arising from different data sets can lead to different outbreak
dynamics. As a result, this paper is well timed. Nevertheless, the manuscript would benefit from
an expanded discussion of the existing literature and analysis of the model results. I hope the
following questions and suggestions will improve the manuscript:
Introduction-
1.) There are two additional papers I am familiar with on how mobile phone data are being
leveraged outside of spatial epi.
Martinez-Cesena, E. A., Mancarella, P., Ndiaye, M., & Schläpfer, M. (2015). Using mobile phone
data for electricity infrastructure planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1504.03899.
Schläpfer, M., Bettencourt, L. M., Grauwin, S., Raschke, M., Claxton, R., Smoreda, Z., ... & Ratti, C.
(2014). The scaling of human interactions with city size. Journal of the Royal Society Interface,
11(98), 20130789.
7
2.) Line 26 - The authors state, "..which have been shown to perform poorly in some developing
settings..." and cite two papers. My understanding of the first cited paper, 12 Wesolowski et al., is
that there findings had more to do with a specific pattern of large-scale human movement, as
opposed to just being an issue with a "developing country." If you agree, I would suggest
modifying your description to better reflect their findings.
Methods-
1.) When performing the renormalization based on cell provider coverage, is it possible that other
biases might be involved, which could effect network structure? For example, does the sample
fraction vary by socioeconomic indicators at the commune or district level? Age distribution?
etc.? Trying to analyze and/or correct for these may be beyond the scope of this analysis, but
should at least be discussed as potential explanations for any differences found between census
and cell-based networks.
2.) For the model evaluation/selection piece, did you consider using alternative procedures such
as regularization via something like lasso or ridge penalties and/or performing model selection
based on the performance on held-out data, i.e. cross-validation?
3.) For AIC model selection did you use forward or reverse model selection? See citation below
for a review of potential issues associated with step-wise-like selection using AIC.
Whittingham, M. J., Stephens, P. A., Bradbury, R. B., & Freckleton, R. P. (2006). Why do we still
use stepwise modelling in ecology and behaviour?. Journal of animal ecology, 75(5), 1182-1189.
4.) Did you consider comparing the resulting correlation matrix in disease prevalence across the
simulated outbreaks to influenza surveillance data from France?
Results-
1.) line 203 - "splayed a highly variable similarity" is confusing. Do you mean the degree of
similarity between outbreaks on the two networks, census and mobile phone, varied?
2.) Regarding arrival times, did you compare the networks using the similarity in message
passing centralities? At least on a tree, or locally tree-like parts of the graph, this would be an
exact answer to risk differences.
Karrer, B., & Newman, M. E. (2010). Message passing approach for general epidemic models.
Physical Review E, 82(1), 016101.
3.) What other properties varied by network? Outbreak size? The speed of spread? etc.?
Discussion-
1.) It would be helpful to expand on how some of the modeling assumptions, e.g., mass-action
mixing within nodes and random censoring to normalize the population sizes, might bias our
interpretation of the results.
2.) How do your results compare to and advance beyond Tizzoni et al. 2014?
Tizzoni, M., Bajardi, P., Decuyper, A., King, G. K. K., Schneider, C. M., Blondel, V., ... & Colizza,
V. (2014). On the use of human mobility proxies for modeling epidemics. PLoS Comput Biol,
10(7), e1003716.
3.) There is a vast literature on differences/similarities between census and mobile phone
mobility patters. Are there lessons or findings from that literature that relate to your results? For
example,
8
Becker, R., Cáceres, R., Hanson, K., Isaacman, S., Loh, J. M., Martonosi, M., ... & Volinsky, C.
(2013). Human mobility characterization from cellular network data. Communications of the
ACM, 56(1), 74-82.
4.) There are a few additional papers on mobility and disease, which should probably be
discussed.
Oliver, N., Matic, A., & Frias-Martinez, E. (2015). Mobile Network data for public health:
opportunities and challenges. Frontiers in public health, 3.
Perez-Saez, J., Mari, L., Bertuzzo, E., Casagrandi, R., Sokolow, S. H., De Leo, G. A., ... &
Karambiri, H. (2015). A theoretical analysis of the geography of schistosomiasis in Burkina Faso
highlights the roles of human mobility and water resources development in disease transmission.
PLoS Negl Trop Dis, 9(10), e0004127.
Wesolowski, A., O’Meara, W. P., Eagle, N., Tatem, A. J., & Buckee, C. O. (2015). Evaluating spatial
interaction models for regional mobility in Sub-Saharan Africa. PLOS Comput Biol, 11(7),
e1004267.
Wesolowski, A., Buckee, C. O., Engø-Monsen, K., & Metcalf, C. J. E. (2016). Connecting mobility
to infectious diseases: the promise and limits of mobile phone data. Journal of Infectious Diseases,
214(suppl 4), S414-S420.
Minor comment-
1.) There are a number of typos throughout the manuscript, which should be corrected.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160950)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160950.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
9
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This is an important contribution and the authors did an excellent job with the revision.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160950.R1)
19-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Tizzoni,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Assessing the use of mobile phone
data to describe recurrent mobility patterns in spatial epidemic models" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This is an important contribution and the authors did an excellent job with the revision.
Appendix A
REVIEW
Assessing the use of mobile phone data to describe recurrent mobility patterns in spatial epidemic models by
Panigutti et al.
The paper moves from the observation that the recent availability of large scale mobile call detail
record data has substantially improved our ability to quantify human travel patterns recognizing
he huge impact it possibly has for applications in epidemiology. The authors compare simulated
outbreaks generated with a spatially structured epidemic model based on two different human
mobility networks to test the impact of the specific mobility model on the disease spread. Their
results, in particular those related to the similarity of simulated epidemics being significantly
correlated to connectivity, traffic and population size of the seeding nodes, are significant in
several respect and surely original. As the subject is of great importance, timely and super-
nteresting and the paper is informative, well written and to the point, I recommend publication –
perhaps pending minor revision as per the specific comments attached below.
Detailed comments
27 – (marginal to the issues dealt with here, but overall relevant) Ref 30 poses some problematic
ssues with the application of the radiation model. The equation of the model, using the notation
of the authors, reads
Nij = TC/T * (popi * popj)/[(popi+sij)*(popi+popj+sij)]
where Nij is the average flux between communities i and j, popi and popj the population sizes of
communities i and j, and sij is the total population living in a circle of radius dij (the distance
between i and j) centered at i, excluding the population of i and j. The fraction TC /T is
nterpreted by the authors as ''the proportion of the population who travel'': a number between 0
and 1. This is correct in the original application of Simini et al. (2012), where the model was used
o predict the number of people living in i and working in j. In that case TC /T is the fraction of
he population that works outside its county. However, in the present study, the authors use the
model to predict the total number of trips between two districts during one year. In this case, the
fraction TC /T is, by definition, the total number of trips originating from i during an entire year
divided by the population of i. Therefore, in this application, TC /T can potentially be larger than
1. Indeed, using the data provided as Supplementary Material, one notes that it is of the order of
10. The calibrated value of TC /T reported by the authors is exactly 1, which corresponds to the
upper limit of the range assumed by the authors. Letting this parameter beyond one, a much
better fit can be achieved and the radiation model does not systematically underpredict real
fluxes. Thus the authors draw conclusions and recommendations that are affected by the issue
highlighted above and this should be taken into account while mentioning their results.
128 and ff – do infected individuals engage in commuting nonetheless? Will you please clarify?
138 – wouldn’t be the very concept of reproduction number R0 meaningless (or at least in need
of some word of caution as R0>1 is neither necessary nor sufficient a condition for disease
spread) in a context where the force of infection depends on mobility? (sensu Gatto et al., PNAS,
109 (48), 19703–19708, 2012 for example)
l 203-206 – Isn’t this obvious?
l 278 – 279 – is this statement justified? (simple network statistics do not seem to include
measures of actual fluxes which obviously correlate) (following lines fully justified, however, in
my view)
References – the text editor seems to have eliminated upper cases (which at times needs
corrections like e.g. rwanda, great britain)
pendix B
r Editor,
ase find enclosed the revised version of the manuscript “Assessing the use of mobile phone data to
cribe recurrent mobility patterns in spatial epidemic models” by Panigutti et al.
are grateful to the reviewers for their detailed and careful reports and we are glad that both
iewers found our manuscript to be a timely and interesting study.
mpted by the reviewers’ remarks, we extensively edited the manuscript to better clarify some of
methodologies and assumptions, and to better discuss our results within the framework of related
rature and previous works.
enclose hereafter a detailed point-to-point answer to all remarks by the reviewers, explaining the
responding changes made in the manuscript.
h these changes, alongside with the other modifications we made in the paper to address all other
arks by the reviewers, we believe that the manuscript is now substantially improved.
thank you for your consideration and dare to hope that the manuscript can be now considered for
lication.
cerely,
ilia Panigutti, Michele Tizzoni, Paolo Bajardi, Zbigniew Smoreda, Vittoria Colizza
PLY TO REVIEWER 1
thank the reviewer for considering our study timely and appropriate for the Royal Society Open
nce. In the following, we report our reply to each remark made by the reviewer.
27 – (marginal to the issues dealt with here, but overall relevant) Ref 30 poses some problematic
es with the application of the radiation model. The equation of the model, using the notation of the
hors, reads
= TC/T * (popi * popj)/[(popi+sij)*(popi+popj+sij)]
re Nij is the average flux between communities i and j, popi and popj the population sizes of
munities i and j, and sij is the total population living in a circle of radius dij (the distance between i
j) centered at i, excluding the population of i and j. The fraction TC /T is interpreted by the authors as
e proportion of the population who travel'': a number between 0 and 1. This is correct in the original
lication of Simini et al. (2012), where the model was used to predict the number of people living in i
working in j. In that case TC /T is the fraction of the population that works outside its county.
wever, in the present study, the authors use the model to predict the total number of trips between two
ricts during one year. In this case, the fraction TC /T is, by definition, the total number of trips
inating from i during an entire year divided by the population of i. Therefore, in this application, TC
an potentially be larger than 1. Indeed, using the data provided as Supplementary Material, one notes
t it is of the order of 10. The calibrated value of TC /T reported by the authors is exactly 1, which
responds to the upper limit of the range assumed by the authors. Letting this parameter beyond one, a
ch better fit can be achieved and the radiation model does not systematically underpredict real fluxes.
s the authors draw conclusions and recommendations that are affected by the issue highlighted above
this should be taken into account while mentioning their results.
e understood correctly, the reviewer is pointing out a limitation of the methods used by the
hors of Ref. 30 (Wesolowski et al. PLOS Comp Bio 2015) that could undermine their conclusions.
understand the concerns of the reviewer, and we rephrased our sentence to take into account the
itations of that study. We also modified our sentence to take into account the remarks of Reviewer
new version of the sentence has now the form: “Finally, the limited generalizability of mobility
dels [29] whose performance can significantly vary depending on the specific geographic setting
modelling assumptions [12,30], and whose utility can be hindered in absence of good calibration
a.”
l 128 and ff – do infected individuals engage in commuting nonetheless? Will you please clarify?
, infected individuals engage in commuting. For the sake of simplicity, we did not consider
avioural changes induced by the infection in our model.
better clarify our modelling approach, we added the following sentence at lines 124-125:
fectious individuals are allowed to commute. For the sake of simplicity, we do not consider
erent degrees of severity of clinical symptoms and potentially associated behavioural changes.”
l 138 – wouldn’t be the very concept of reproduction number R0 meaningless (or at least in need of
e word of caution as R0>1 is neither necessary nor sufficient a condition for disease spread) in a
text where the force of infection depends on mobility? (sensu Gatto et al., PNAS, 109 (48), 19703–
08, 2012 for example)
thank the reviewer for suggesting us a relevant reference. Prompted by this comment, we clarified
the basic reproductive number is defined in our model. Specifically, the basic reproductive
mber is as the ratio between the transmissibility \beta and the recovery rate \mu.
be more precise, we define R_0 as the local basic reproductive number, that is the reproductive
mber of the infection in a single subpopulation of our system. The condition R_0>1 ensures that the
demic will reach a finite proportion of individuals in a single patch, once the patch has been
ched by the infection. This is not to be confused with the global reproductive number that defines
epidemic threshold for the networked system. The local condition R_0>1 is in general necessary
not sufficient for the epidemic to reach a finite proportion of the whole metapopulation network
shown by Colizza et al. J. Theo Bio 2008). One important difference with respect to the suggested
rence is that, in our case, the value of R_0 is fixed and constant over time for every patch of the
tem, therefore R_0 is not allowed to go below threshold in some populations but not in others.
ordingly, we expanded the description of our model at lines 114-118 of the revised manuscript.
ll 203-206 – Isn’t this obvious?
original sentence was unclear, as also pointed out by Reviewer 2. We rephrased it as follows: “The
ree of similarity of the simulated epidemics, in terms of temporal and spatial unfolding, displayed a
h variability across the two networks, census and mobile phone, depending on the nodes that were
cted as a seed of the outbreak.”
think that this result is not completely obvious, as, in principle, similarity between epidemics
ting from the same seed in the two networks could have been constantly high (or low), for each
d considered.
ll 278 – 279 – is this statement justified? (simple network statistics do not seem to include measures
ctual fluxes which obviously correlate) (following lines fully justified, however, in my view)
actual fluxes of commuting can be represented as weights in a network description, and the main
ult shown by Gutreau et al. (Ref 49) is that it is possible to approximate the average arrival time of
infection in a networked metapopulation system based on weighted network statistics.
clarified this point by modifying the statement as follows:
] in agreement with the known fact that the arrival times distribution in a metapopulation model
be simply estimated by measuring a certain weighted distance computed on a directed weighted
ph”.
References – the text editor seems to have eliminated upper cases (which at times needs corrections
e.g. rwanda, great britain)
have corrected all the missing upper cases.
PLY TO REVIEWER 2
thank the reviewer for carefully reading our manuscript and for her suggestions that helped us
rove the manuscript. Hereafter, we answer to all the remarks point by point.
There are two additional papers I am familiar with on how mobile phone data are being leveraged
side of spatial epidemiology:
rtinez-Cesena, E. A., Mancarella, P., Ndiaye, M., & Schläpfer, M. (2015). Using mobile phone data for
tricity infrastructure planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1504.03899.
läpfer, M., Bettencourt, L. M., Grauwin, S., Raschke, M., Claxton, R., Smoreda, Z., ... & Ratti, C. (2014).
scaling of human interactions with city size. Journal of the Royal Society Interface, 11(98), 20130789.
thank the reviewer for pointing out two additional references related to mobile phones data usage.
number of papers using mobile phone data has increased considerably in the last few years. For
reason, we decided to focus explicitly on all papers dealing with mobile phone data usage for
bility of epidemic purposes, and provide a comprehensive review for the reader to approach more
erally the field (Ref. 1).
Line 26 - The authors state, "..which have been shown to perform poorly in some developing
ings..." and cite two papers. My understanding of the first cited paper, 12 Wesolowski et al., is that
re findings had more to do with a specific pattern of large-scale human movement, as opposed to just
ng an issue with a "developing country." If you agree, I would suggest modifying your description to
er reflect their findings.
modified our statement by removing the wording “developing settings”. The new version of the
tence has now the form: “Finally, the limited generalizability of mobility models [29] whose
formance can significantly vary depending on the specific geographic setting and modelling
umptions [12,30], and whose utility can be hindered in absence of good calibration data.”
When performing the renormalization based on cell provider coverage, is it possible that other biases
ht be involved, which could effect network structure? For example, does the sample fraction vary by
oeconomic indicators at the commune or district level? Age distribution? etc.? Trying to analyze
/or correct for these may be beyond the scope of this analysis, but should at least be discussed as
ential explanations for any differences found between census and cell-based networks.
agree with the reviewer that our normalization procedure is very simple. In our previous work
zoni et al. 2014), we already explored different normalization procedures, with no significant
nges in the main results. Integration of socio-economic factors may improve accuracy, however it
uld require a higher set of parameters or assumptions in the model. For this reason, we decided to
us on a basic normalization. In addition, in our view the approach becomes more easily
eralizable to other settings where socio-economic variables are not easily accessible.
ng aware of the above issues, we added a sentence in the Discussion (lines 326-329):
] Trying to correct for such socio-economic biases, by taking them into account in the
malization procedure, could provide a potential explanation for the discrepancies observed
ween epidemic outcomes on the two networks. On the other hand, it would also increase the
mber of parameters or assumptions in the model. For this reason, we decided to focus on a basic
malization, as it is also more easily generalizable to other settings where socio-economic variables
not easily accessible.”
For the model evaluation/selection piece, did you consider using alternative procedures such as
ularization via something like lasso or ridge penalties and/or performing model selection based on
performance on held-out data, i.e. cross-validation?
the model selection we choose to rely on AIC comparison between models. As discussed in the
t comment, our approach does not introduce biases as in a step-wise approach. Alternative
roaches could have been chosen. We would like however to clarify that such analysis was not
formed to make predictions (i.e. being able to predict what the responses are going to be to future
ependent variables) but rather to grasp information from the system (i.e. how the underlying
ural mechanism is associating the response variables to the independent variables). In such
spective, our interest does not lie in learning a hidden function from the data that recreates
comes that are observed (as such, we did not cross-validate the model), but in understanding
ch features are mainly associated to the observed outcomes.
s subtle difference is currently a major topic of discussion in the statistical/machine learning
munity.
For AIC model selection did you use forward or reverse model selection? See citation below for a
ew of potential issues associated with step-wise-like selection using AIC.
ittingham, M. J., Stephens, P. A., Bradbury, R. B., & Freckleton, R. P. (2006). Why do we still use stepwise
delling in ecology and behaviour?. Journal of animal ecology, 75(5), 1182-1189.
are aware of the limitations of a stepwise approach, and thus we evaluated all the possible
binations (a total of 131,500) of the selected covariates independently, and compared them with
AIC. Leveraging a stepwise approach would have led to a drastically lower number of fitted
dels, but would have introduced the issues well described in the paper by Whittingham et al.
clarified this point in the Methods section.
Did you consider comparing the resulting correlation matrix in disease prevalence across the
ulated outbreaks to influenza surveillance data from France?
reviewer raises a very relevant point. We did not compare our simulation results to real influenza
dence data, mainly because our aim is characterizing the similarities and discrepancies of
ulated epidemic scenarios obtained from different mobility networks rather than assessing which
bility proxy better explains the epidemic patterns observed by the national surveillance systems.
do that, our approach would need a higher level of sophistication, integrating additional
structure of the population, age of individuals, contact patterns, interventions, change of behaviour
weekend vs. weekday movements, importations from neighbouring countries, weather conditions,
many others. Different sets of approaches are generally developed for these aims, as they require
igher realism than what is considered in our study. Here we decided to keep our approach fairly
ple and to include only the basic ingredients that were the object of the analysis in order to achieve
learer understanding and interpretation of results. Our findings could then be used for the
elopment of higher realism models with the specific aim of reproducing historical epidemics.
line 203 - "displayed a highly variable similarity" is confusing. Do you mean the degree of similarity
ween outbreaks on the two networks, census and mobile phone, varied?
mpted by the reviewer’s comment, and a similar comment by Reviewer 1, we reframed the
tence as follow:
e degree of similarity in terms of temporal and spatial unfolding of the simulated epidemics
played a high variability across the two networks, census and mobile phone, depending on the
es that were selected as a seed of the outbreak.”
Regarding arrival times, did you compare the networks using the similarity in message passing
tralities? At least on a tree, or locally tree-like parts of the graph, this would be an exact answer to
differences.
rer, B., & Newman, M. E. (2010). Message passing approach for general epidemic models. Physical
iew E, 82(1), 016101.
thank the reviewer for suggesting a relevant reference and methodology. We believe, however,
t such method does not apply to our work for several reasons:
- the suggested paper shows results on a contact network structure, while we consider a
metapopulation network: the difference is not trivial as transmission between nodes is driven
by mobility fluxes which are highly heterogeneous and is a function of the ongoing outbreak in
each node of the network;
- the suggested paper deals with non-constant recovery time and transmissibility (that is not
our case), and the authors propose a method to investigate contact networks with tree-like
structure: commuting network in France is very dense and cannot be considered as a tree-like
structure.
are not aware of studies with message-passage techniques applied to metapopulation networks
t are not tree-like. For this reason, we measured arrival times based on simulated epidemics. It is
rth noting that the distribution of arrival times in a metapopulation network can be approximated
lytically by measuring a certain weighted distance computed on a directed weighted graph as
wn in Gautreau et al. J. Theo. Bio. 2008, as we mention in the Discussion.
What other properties varied by network? Outbreak size? The speed of spread? etc.?
outbreak size did not vary significantly since it is mainly regulated by the value of the basic
roductive number that has been kept constant in the different scenarios. The chosen value of R_0
ulted in a global outbreak for each simulated scenario, that is, for every different seed, at least
00 simulated outbreaks always reached the full network and all nodes of the system were infected
he end of a simulation.
arding the speed of spread, in Tizzoni et al. 2014 we have shown that the speed of spread is higher,
h in terms of arrival times and peak times, when the mobility layer considered is extracted from
bile phone data, due to a systematic overestimation of commuting fluxes by mobile phone data. For
reason, we used the Spearman coefficient to compare the temporal unfolding, thus discounting the
ady known differences in speed.
en discussing the choice of Spearman coefficient, we added the following sentence to clarify this
nt:
is worth recalling that mobility networks extracted from mobile phone data systematically
restimated the commuting fluxes with the considered normalization, therefore accelerating the
ed of invasion of the disease (Tizzoni et al. 2014). To discount the systematic difference in arrival
es due to such bias, we used a non-parametric measure to focus on the temporal ordering of the
cted subpopulations.”
0) It would be helpful to expand on how some of the modeling assumptions, e.g., mass-action mixing
hin nodes and random censoring to normalize the population sizes, might bias our interpretation of
results.
also discussed after comment #6, we considered a rather simple modelling framework to highlight
isolate the effects of the different mobility networks on the disease spread. We argue that more
ned compartmental models or assumptions for population mixing within the patches would not
ct our conclusions, as long as they would not alter the mobility fluxes in a heterogeneous way. Also
erent mobility behaviours by age or by period of the year (e.g. during winter holidays) were shown
to affect the epidemic outcome (Ewing et al, 2016; and some authors of this paper are currently
forming a similar study applied to Belgium with the same conclusions).
arly, our study represents a first step into further investigations where more realistic ingredients
d to be considered. For example, further extensions would be necessary to model the spread of
er diseases such as measles, cholera or polio, for which mobile phone data have been used in the
rature.
rall, our results can be considered applicable within the realm of rapidly disseminated directly
nsmitted emerging diseases, like most flu strains and coronaviruses.
added a sentence in the Discussion to highlight this point.
1) How do your results compare to and advance beyond Tizzoni et al. 2014?
zoni, M., Bajardi, P., Decuyper, A., King, G. K. K., Schneider, C. M., Blondel, V., ... & Colizza, V. (2014). On
use of human mobility proxies for modeling epidemics. PLoS Comput Biol, 10(7), e1003716.
izzoni et al. 2014, we performed a broad comparison of mobility proxies across different countries
rtugal, Spain and France), mobility networks (census, mobile phone, radiation) and disease
nsmissibility (three values of R_0 were explored). The main findings of the paper were:
o phone data matches the commuting patterns reported by census well but tends to
overestimate the number of commuters, leading to a faster diffusion of simulated epidemics;
o the order of infection of newly infected locations is however well preserved;
o the pattern of epidemic invasion is captured with higher accuracy by the radiation model for
centrally seeded epidemics and by phone proxy for peripherally seeded epidemics.
eraging on previous findings, the current paper focuses exclusively on the comparison mobile
nes/census to perform an extensive investigation of the characteristics of the seeding node that
t predict the epidemic similarity across networks.
findings of the present paper suggest also additional questions that might be addressed in future
rks: would it be possible to define a location-specific normalization schema of fluxes from mobile
ne data able to correctly resemble the mobility network and providing a good agreement
ependently from the seeding node? How does the variability in outcome similarity change for
erent disease transmission or modelling approach? In general, here we have defined a benchmark
hodology to perform studies aimed at comparing different disease modelling approaches on
ctured metapopulation systems.
2) There is a vast literature on differences/similarities between census and mobile phone mobility
terns. Are there lessons or findings from that literature that relate to your results? For example,
ker, R., Cáceres, R., Hanson, K., Isaacman, S., Loh, J. M., Martonosi, M., ... & Volinsky, C. (2013). Human
bility characterization from cellular network data. Communications of the ACM, 56(1), 74-82.
thank the reviewer for the suggested reference. As we now mention in the Introduction, although
re is a vast literature on differences/similarities between census and mobile phone data, most of
studies focus on structural features, while here we focus on a dynamical process unfolding on top
hem, i.e. epidemic spreading.
rall, there is a significant consensus on the fact that mobile phone data can well capture human
bility at very high spatial and temporal resolution (see Deville et al. PNAS 2013), in agreement with
sus data. Our work confirms this general view.
wever, when it comes to application in epidemiology there are several open questions and
llenges that relate to the interplay between movements and infectious disease dynamics, as clearly
cribed by Wesolowski et al. Journal of Infectious Diseases 2016.
believe that our work provides some novel insights to better understand the limits of using CDRs
ived movements in large scale spatial epidemic models.
3) There are a few additional papers on mobility and disease, which should probably be discussed.
er, N., Matic, A., & Frias-Martinez, E. (2015). Mobile Network data for public health: opportunities and
llenges. Frontiers in public health, 3.
ez-Saez, J., Mari, L., Bertuzzo, E., Casagrandi, R., Sokolow, S. H., De Leo, G. A., ... & Karambiri, H. (2015).
eoretical analysis of the geography of schistosomiasis in Burkina Faso highlights the roles of human
bility and water resources development in disease transmission. PLoS Negl Trop Dis, 9(10), e0004127.
solowski, A., O’Meara, W. P., Eagle, N., Tatem, A. J., & Buckee, C. O. (2015). Evaluating spatial
raction models for regional mobility in Sub-Saharan Africa. PLOS Comput Biol, 11(7), e1004267.
solowski, A., Buckee, C. O., Engø-Monsen, K., & Metcalf, C. J. E. (2016). Connecting mobility to infectious
ases: the promise and limits of mobile phone data. Journal of Infectious Diseases, 214(suppl 4), S414-
0.
added the references to the manuscript.
4) There are a number of typos throughout the manuscript, which should be corrected.
carefully edited the manuscript to correct all errors and typos.
Society Open
