Study of mixed mode fracture toughness and fracture
trajectories in gypsum interlayers in corrosive environment
Bao Xiankai, Tao Meng and Zhao Jinchang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171374.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171374
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171374.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
1. the conclusions should be more concised.
2. some statements may be wrong, such as in line 35-37, page 19.
3. the experimental conditon and process should be introduced in detail.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Studying of fracture is very important in many applications , specially considering the coupling
effects of thermo-chemical and stress. No doubt that this paper brings some new findings. So it
deserves publication after the following minor modifications.
The sentence like this is very vague and it should be written in particular in the abstract in a way
that it gives key findings to the readers. I would suggest authors to discuss key findings in the
abstract “ results demonstrated that, when at a given mode mixity, the fracture toughness of
gypsum decreases with increasing brine temperature. When at a given brine temperature, the
failure load first decreases then increases with the increase ofß due to the effect of friction
coefficient”
I would suggest authors to add a paragraph to the introduction in regards to its application
specially to the co2 storage in saline aquifers. I have listed some papers and would encourage
authors to find few more and discuss fracture propergation in particular in the caprock.
Add few papers here from G4 and open science journal.
White et al A suite of benchmark and challenge problems for enhanced geothermal systems
Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources, pp 1–39
De Silva et al A study of methodologies for CO2 storage capacity estimation of saline aquifers.
Fuel, 2012, vol 93, issue 1, 13–27.
Yang et al Nonlinear visco-elastic and accelerating creep model for coal under conventional
triaxial compression Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,
3
December 2015, Volume 1, Issue 3–4, pp 109–120
Please remove basic introduction to different fracture modes 1, 2, 3 etc and we as the community
know all about this
It is not clear to me what authors mean by “It was found that there is a positive correlation
between damage degree and brine concentration.” Please elaborate it.
Please improve fig 2- too small to read it. Please include a table to show amount of different
minerals in the tested sample.
Certain concentrations, temperatures and time intervals have been chosen. It would be good idea
to include how those selected magnitudes relates to the filed conditions.
Why there is axial deformations (almost 300-400 microns) observed with no load increment-fig
3a. I think this is perhaps there is no piston is touch when the time t = 0. If so then, that should be
corrected or otherwise, there should be good explanations.
It is an interesting to see when the cut fracture is horizontal, the initiated fracture did not start
from the end of the fracture. It is not clear from the text why is that?
Some authors have observed a slightly higher failure load at moderately higher temperatures due
to the crystallization of Nacl, however in this paper, the opposite was observed. Any comments
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171374)
16-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Meng
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171374 entitled
"Study of mixed mode fracture toughness and fracture criterion in gypsum rock subjected to a
coupled thermo-hydro-chemical environment" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171374
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 25-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Ian Moore (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The reviewers are positive and provide suggestions for revision. Therefore, I recommend
acceptance subject to minor revisions.
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
1. the conclusions should be more concised.
2. some statements may be wrong, such as in line 35-37, page 19.
3. the experimental conditon and process should be introduced in detail.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Studying of fracture is very important in many applications , specially considering the coupling
effects of thermo-chemical and stress. No doubt that this paper brings some new findings. So it
deserves publication after the following minor modifications.
The sentence like this is very vague and it should be written in particular in the abstract in a way
that it gives key findings to the readers. I would suggest authors to discuss key findings in the
abstract “ results demonstrated that, when at a given mode mixity, the fracture toughness of
gypsum decreases with increasing brine temperature. When at a given brine temperature, the
failure load first decreases then increases with the increase ofß due to the effect of friction
coefficient”
I would suggest authors to add a paragraph to the introduction in regards to its application
specially to the co2 storage in saline aquifers. I have listed some papers and would encourage
authors to find few more and discuss fracture propergation in particular in the caprock.
Add few papers here from G4 and open science journal.
White et al A suite of benchmark and challenge problems for enhanced geothermal systems
Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources, pp 1–39
De Silva et al A study of methodologies for CO2 storage capacity estimation of saline aquifers.
Fuel, 2012, vol 93, issue 1, 13–27.
Yang et al Nonlinear visco-elastic and accelerating creep model for coal under conventional
triaxial compression Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,
December 2015, Volume 1, Issue 3–4, pp 109–120
Please remove basic introduction to different fracture modes 1, 2, 3 etc and we as the community
know all about this
It is not clear to me what authors mean by “It was found that there is a positive correlation
between damage degree and brine concentration.” Please elaborate it.
Please improve fig 2- too small to read it. Please include a table to show amount of different
minerals in the tested sample.
Certain concentrations, temperatures and time intervals have been chosen. It would be good idea
to include how those selected magnitudes relates to the filed conditions.
Why there is axial deformations (almost 300-400 microns) observed with no load increment-fig
3a. I think this is perhaps there is no piston is touch when the time t = 0. If so then, that should be
corrected or otherwise, there should be good explanations.
It is an interesting to see when the cut fracture is horizontal, the initiated fracture did not start
from the end of the fracture. It is not clear from the text why is that?
Some authors have observed a slightly higher failure load at moderately higher temperatures due
to the crystallization of Nacl, however in this paper, the opposite was observed. Any comments
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171374)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171374.R1)
11-Dec-2017
Dear Dr Meng,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Study of mixed mode fracture
toughness and fracture trajectories in gypsum interlayers in corrosive environment" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Editors,
Thank you very much for arranging the review and for commenting on our paper, “Study of
mixed mode fracture toughness and fracture trajectories in gypsum interlayers in corrosive
environment”. These comments were very valuable and very helpful for revising and improving
this paper, as well as for guiding future research. We have carefully revised our manuscript and have
made corrections that we hope will meet with your approval. The revised portions of our manuscript
are highlighted in blue. The main corrections in the paper and our responses to the reviewers’
comments are as follows:
Reviewer #1
1. the conclusions should be more concised.
Thanks for your valuable and thoughtful comments. We agree with your decision that the
conclusions should be more concise. We carefully revise the conclusions, as seen in the following.
“The mixed fracture toughness values, fracture traces and FPZ of gypsum interlayers soaked
in brine with various temperature were investigated in the laboratory. In this study, the following
main conclusions were obtained:
At a given inclination angle, the fracture toughness of gypsum soaked in brine decreased with
increasing brine temperature. When at a given brine temperature, the fracture load of gypsum first
decreased then increased with the increasing of inclination angle.
When soaked in brine at 20ºC, the crystal boundaries of gypsum appeared open between the
crystals. When soaked in 50ºC brine, a small number of tensile cracks which be perpendicular to
the crystal boundaries began to appear on the gypsum crystals. However, when the specimens were
soaked at 80ºC, the intensity of deterioration became the most severe due to the presence of more
numerous cracks.
The experimental fracture envelope derived from the conventional fracture criterions and lay
outside these criterions. The experimental envelopes were gradually scaled down with the increase
of brine temperature, which are greatly dependent on brine temperature. The size of FPZ was greatly
dependent on the damage degree of materials and gradually increased with increase of brine
temperature.”
2. some statements may be wrong, such as in line 35-37, page 19.
Thanks for comments. We apologized for the errors. We should delete the word “not”. Therefore
the sentence should be revised to “When soaked in brine, the gypsum specimens exhibit more plastic
behavior”.
3. the experimental condition and process should be introduced in detail.
Thanks for your valuable and thoughtful comments. We agree that the experimental condition and
process should be introduced in detail, as shown below.
For soaking tests, we used a self-heated system with constant temperature (SHSWCT) to maintain
a constant temperature, as shown in the figure below.
Fig. 3 Self-heated system with constant temperature.
Experimental process: 1. Put 10000 ml of the pre-prepared liquid (pure water, half-saturated brine,
or saturated brine) into dry and clean reagent bottles and mark them with numbers. 2. Heat each
bottle using the SHSWCT for approximately 20 min to ensure that the liquid temperature in each
bottle rises to the predetermined temperature. 3. Gently place each specimen into the correct bottle
filled with liquid and seal each bottle to ensure that the concentration of the solution in the bottles
does not change via heating. Maintain a stable temperature for the predetermined duration. 4.
Tweeze the specimens out of the bottles lightly to make sure that the specimens are not damaged by
the tweezers, and dry the surface of each specimen with filter paper. 5. Dry the specimens using a
drying oven for approximately 10 min at 30 <U+2103> to ensure that the specimens are desiccated. 6. Test
the fracture load of the treated specimens.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Studying of fracture is very important in many applications , specially considering the
coupling effects of thermo-chemical and stress. No doubt that this paper brings some
new findings. So it deserves publication after the following minor modifications.
1. The sentence like this is very vague and it should be written in particular in the
abstract in a way that it gives key findings to the readers. I would suggest authors to
discuss key findings in the abstract “ results demonstrated that, when at a given mode
mixity, the fracture toughness of gypsum decreases with increasing brine temperature.
When at a given brine temperature, the failure load first decreases then increases with
the increase ofß due to the effect of friction coefficient”
Thanks for your valuable and thoughtful comments. We agree with your opinion that the abstract
should be written in particular in a way that it gives key findings to the readers. Therefore, we
carefully revise the abstract, as seen in the following.
“Based on the engineering background of water dissolving mining for hydrocarbon storage in
multi-laminated salt stratum, the mixed mode fracture toughness and fracture trajectory of gypsum
interlayers soaked in half-saturated brine with various temperatures (20°C, 50°C and 80°C) were
studied by using CSNBD (cracked straight notched Brazilian disk) specimens with required
inclination angles (0°, 7°, 15°, 22°, 30°, 45°, 60°, 75°, 90°) and SEM (scanning electron microscopy).
The results showed: a) the fracture load of gypsum specimens first decreased then increased with
the increasing of inclination angle due to the effect of friction coefficient. When soaked in brine, the
fracture toughness of gypsum specimens gradually decreased with increasing brine temperature; b)
when soaked in brine, the crystal boundaries of gypsum separated and became clearer, and the
boundaries become more open between the crystals with increasing brine temperature. Besides,
tensile micro-cracks appeared on the gypsum crystals when soaked in 50°C brine, and the intensity
of tensile cracks became more severe when soaking in 80°C brine; c) the experimental fracture
envelopes derived from the conventional fracture criterions and lay outside these conventional
criterions. The experimental fracture envelopes were dependent on the brine temperature and
gradually expanded outward as brine temperature increases; d) the size of FPZ (fracture process
zone) was greatly dependent on the damage degree of materials and gradually increased with
increase of brine temperature. The study has important implication for the control of shape and size
of salt cavern.”
2. I would suggest authors to add a paragraph to the introduction in regards to its
application specially to the co2 storage in saline aquifers. I have listed some papers and
would encourage authors to find few more and discuss fracture propagation in particular
in the caprock. Add few papers here from G4 and open science journal.
White et al A suite of benchmark and challenge problems for enhanced geothermal
systems Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources, pp 1–39
De Silva et al A study of methodologies for CO2 storage capacity estimation of saline
aquifers. Fuel, 2012, vol 93, issue 1, 13–27.
Yang et al Nonlinear visco-elastic and accelerating creep model for coal under
conventional triaxial compression Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and
Geo-Resources, December 2015, Volume 1, Issue 3–4, pp 109–120.
Thanks for your comments. Thanks for the interesting papers. The study of mixed
mode fracture toughness is also very important in the field of CO2 storage in saline
aquifers. We agree that a paragraph to introduction in regards to CO2 storage in saline
aquifers should be added, as showed below. Besides, we also cite these interesting
papers.
The study of fracture toughness is also very necessary in the field of CO2 storage in
saline aquifers. Usually, the supercritical CO2 is injected into deep stratum. Due to the
difference in density of the supercritical CO2 and saline water, the supercritical CO2 is
continuously moved upwardly under the action of buoyancy. Eventually, the
supercritical CO2 will encounter the dense caprock and be blocked by it. However,
excessive CO2 will cause a larger pressure on the caprock. And, the increase in pressure
inevitably acts upon the tightness of the caprock. When a critical internal pressure is
reached, fracturing in the caprock may occurs. That is, when the value of the stress
intensity factor becomes greater than that of a certain critical stress intensity value of
caprock, known as the fracture toughness, Kc, a fracture is presumed to be initiate. Note
that, such fracturing is very possible because the fracture toughness of the caprock is
relatively low. Therefore, in order to prevent the leakage of CO2, the study of fracture
toughness of caprock is very important.
3. Please remove basic introduction to different fracture modes 1, 2, 3 etc and we as the
community know all about this.
Thanks for your comments. We have removed the basic introduction to different
fracture modes.
4. It is not clear to me what authors mean by “It was found that there is a positive
correlation between damage degree and brine concentration.” Please elaborate it.
Thanks for your comments. We apologized for the error. Actually, the damage degree
of gypsum with regards to brine concentration had been discussed in detailed by Yu et
al. 2015. They concluded that the damage degree is the largest when the gypsum were
soaked in half-saturated brine, as seen in the following literature.
Yu W D, Liang W G, Li Y R, et al. The meso-mechanism study of gypsum
rock weakening in brine solutions[J]. Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the
Environment, 2016, 75(1): 359-367.
Hence, the sentence (i.e., It was found that there is a positive correlation between
damage degree and brine concentration ) is revised to they concluded that the
mechanical properties of gypsum can be greatly affected by the brine concentration.
.
5. Please improve fig 2- too small to read it. Please include a table to show amount of
different minerals in the tested sample.
Thanks for your comments. We apologized for the error. We revise the Fig.2 and
include a table to show the different minerals, as shown below.
Fig. 2 Analysis on X-ray diffraction of gypsum interlayer
Table 1 Compositions and contents of the tested specimens (mean value)
Chemical
Gypsum(CaSO4·2H2O) Quartz(SiO2) Brushite(CaPHO4) Anhydrite(CaSO4)
Component
Content 85.4% 8.7% 4.8% 1.1%
6. Certain concentrations, temperatures and time intervals have been chosen. It would
be good idea to include how those selected magnitudes relates to the field conditions.
Thanks for your comments. We agree that the selected magnitudes related to the filed
condition should be concluded. We carefully revise the sentences, as showed below.
The depth of most salt caverns is 500-2000m, and the formation temperature is 20-
80°C. Therefore, in this paper, 20°C, 50°C and 80°C are used as the selected magnitudes.
In the process of constructing a salt cavern, the concentration of brine changes with
changes in spatial position because of dissolution, the effect of gravity, and convective
circulation effects. The brine concentration is higher at the bottom and lower at the top
of the salt cavern. Note that the gypsum interlayers usually be located in the middle of
salt cavern. Therefore, in this paper, the half-saturated brine is used as the test condition.
7. Why there is axial deformations (almost 300-400 microns) observed with no load
increment-fig 3a. I think this is perhaps there is no piston is touch when the time t = 0.
If so then, that should be corrected or otherwise, there should be good explanations.
Thanks for your comments. We agree that there is no piston is touch when the time
t=0. Therefore, we revised the curves, as showed below.
8
0<U+F0B0>
7 7<U+F0B0>
15<U+F0B0>
6 22<U+F0B0>
30<U+F0B0>
45<U+F0B0>
5
60<U+F0B0>
Load(kN)
75<U+F0B0>
4
90<U+F0B0>
3
2
1
0
0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35
Axial displacement(<U+F06D>m)
Fig. 3 Typical failure curves of the dry CSNBD specimens under mixed mode loading ( <U+F062> =0°, 7°, 15°, 22°, 30°,
45°, 60°, 75°, 90°).
8. It is an interesting to see when the cut fracture is horizontal, the initiated fracture
did not start from the end of the fracture. It is not clear from the text why is that?
Thanks for your comments. When the cut fracture is horizontal, the failure pattern of
this specimen is same to that of flattened Brazilian disk with no cut fracture. In other
words, pure tensile failure will occur for the specimen with horizontal cut fracture.
Hence, the initiated fracture did not start from the end of the fracture. In order to explain
to the experimental phenomenon, we conducted an numerical study of the failure
patterns and characteristics of these specimens using PFC, as showed in Fig. 2. From
the numerical results, we can find that the failure patterns and characteristics are very
similar to the experimental results, which give a strong support to our analysis.
Fig. 3 Numerical modeling results, 3D model failure modes for different
inclination angles (ß=0°, 7°, 15°, 22°, 30°, 45°, 60°, 75°, 90°)
9. Some authors have observed a slightly higher failure load at moderately higher
temperatures due to the crystallization of NaCl, however in this paper, the opposite was
observed. Any comments.
Thanks for your comments. Actually, the specimens in our study were soaked in half-
saturated brine. And, there is a plenty of half saturated brine. Besides, we monitored
the brine concentration in real time. The crystallization of NaCl certainly did not occur.
Therefore, our experimental results are different from the others.
Society Open
