Efficient conformational space exploration in ab initio
protein folding simulation
Ahammed Ullah, Nasif Ahmed, Subrata Dey Pappu, Swakkhar Shatabda, A. Z. M. Dayem
Ullah and M. Sohel Rahman
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150238.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150238
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 2 June 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 18 July 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 27 July 2015
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140204.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Kathleen Steinhofel)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The tables and figure provided are clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper proposes an interesting way of evaluating protein conformations derived in ab initio
folding simulations. The proposed energy function has been tested with a genetic algorithms
using a discrete lattice model. The results presented outperform state-of-the-art algorithms on the
tested sequences, and only missed the best RMSD on 3 out of the 12 instances. It is well written,
with an easy to follow structure and clearly labelled tables and figures. Results are thoroughly
compared to published methods with regard to free energy, however no comparisons appear to
have been made with regard to the efficiency of the conformational space exploration, or
computation time. Either a relevant experimental comparison is included or the title adapted to
highlight the properties of the adapted energy function.
There are some very minor grammatical issues, for example - line 40 in the abstract should read
"On the other hand, the HP model considers....". Also, I would consider adding some form of
shape notation to the lines on Figures 2 through 5. Printing the paper in black and white makes it
difficult to determine which line is which. Due to the ordered groupings used, Figure 1 is easier
to read when printed in black and white.
In the introduction, the authors state that most state of the art results are on small (less than 75
residue) proteins. Recent literature (including Rashid et al, 2013) use sequences from the same
CASP9 competition the authors obtain sequences from, but of longer length (most common is up
to length 279, or protein 3on7). Given that the authors suggest their algorithm should perform
better on longer sequences, it is surprising they limited the length of sequences they tested.
The title of the paper suggests that the goal of their algorithm is to achieve “efficient” exploration.
With respect to this, however, there are a number of issues. Firstly, the analysis of the algorithm
appears to be focused on the structures obtained (in terms of free energy and similarity to native
structures) as opposed to the efficiency of the algorithm. No comparisons are made to the
efficiency of other state-of-the-art algorithms, even though published works have used “Energy
Evaluations” - the number of times the energy of a structure is evaluated during the run, as a
metric. Since there is no analysis, there is no comparison, efficiency-wise, to published material.
Furthermore, in section 2.7, the authors state that generic operators are used exhaustively, which
comes with a “penalty of increased execution time”. There is no mention of the severity of this
penalty, which, given the title of the paper, would be expected. Does this dramatically affect the
runtime of the algorithm, or does it cause a minor decrease in efficiency.
In Section 3.1, the authors state that the ratio of probabilities for move selection is 0.4:0.24:0.2:0.15
and that this was crudely computed in pilot runs. There is no mention of how these values were
chosen, or what property the authors were attempting to optimise through changing these values
in the pilot runs.
The paper can be published with the above points addressed. This could be achieved through
including an in-depth analysis of the efficiency of their proposed method in comparison to
published literature. It would also be good to see experimental results on longer sequences (as
used in other literature) to corroborate the idea that their algorithm works better with longer
sequences.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please refer to the attached file for my comments. (see Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140204)
11-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Rahman:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140204 entitled "Efficient Conformational Space Exploration in Ab Initio
Protein Folding Simulation" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
4
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 10-Jun-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150238)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-150238.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See Attached Document (Appendix C).
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150238)
07-Jul-2015
Dear Dr Rahman
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150238 entitled
"Efficient Conformational Space Exploration in Ab Initio Protein Folding Simulation" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
6
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Jul-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150238)
See Appendix D.
Appendix A
Dear Editor,
In the manuscript titled “Efficient Conformational Space Exploration in Ab Initio Protein Folding
Simulation”, the authors Ahammed, U. et al. proposed an improved strategy for ab initio protein
folding based on non-uniform scaling version of 20x20 pairwise energy function (which is
different from standard HP model). From their benchmark studies of twelve proteins, they claim
that their newly developed method produces structures that are closer to the native structures
compared to other state-of-the-art methodologies. They also claim that this energy function
explores regions of conformational space that are unreachable using other methods.
In general, the manuscript is written in a straightforward manner but has a few
grammatical/English errors. In this study, they included other interaction terms (in addition to
hydrophobic-polar interaction included in HP model) that is crucial for the formation of protein
tertiary structures. It is a technically sound study, in which systematic approaches were adopted
and conclusive results were obtained. In my opinion, however, it will strengthen the manuscript
further if the authors address the following concerns. The questions are the following:
1. In their manuscript (lines 15-23, page 19) they state “We notice that there is not much
improvement in the RMSD values of the best structures from the initial random
structures. This indicates the absence of strong positive correlation between the value of
the energy function and RMSD measure. Similar findings are also reported in [35].
Details of the energy function values and corresponding RMSD values are given in
supplementary Table S4.” If there is no strong correlation between the RMSD and
energy, how do they explain the significant drop in energy between the initial and best
structures?
2. Are the RMSDs reported in the units of Angstroms? Also, there is no noticeable
improvement between Rashid et al. and their new findings. Especially for the larger
proteins, Rashid et al. produces structures with better RMSDs (e.g., 3NBM, 3MQO,
3MRO). In that case, authors should point out how is their new strategy better than
previous models?
3. In Table S3, they report the GW and BM energies of the system for runs with different
time lengths. For smaller proteins, the GW energies obtained are not so different
(comparing 30 mins, 1 hr and 2hrs runs), however, the differences are prominent not only
in GW energies with 30 mins, 1hr and 2hrs but also much lower than the ones obtained
from BM energy model.
-My first question is what is the unit of the energy reported here. Is it in reduced energy
units? If so, how is it related to the standard units of energy? Without this comparison, it was
difficult to interpret the meaning of these differences. And the authors did not explain it.
4. Authors mention that, they perform 50 independent runs. I am assuming all the folding
simulations were performed several times. In that case, they should report standard
deviation values in the relevant tables and figures for reference. Statistical data would
provide more credibility in their proposed methodology.
5. Did they perform any direct comparison with other state-of-the art techniques, e.g., I-
Tasser, for these particular proteins? If so, they should add a comparative study to the
manuscript for demonstrating how their methodology is superior.
6. As the authors acknowledged in the introduction, several other ab initio folding methods
that are based on discrete molecular dynamics (Shirvanyants D. et al. J. Phys. Chem.,
2012, 116, 8375-8382) and replica exchange molecular dynamics simulations (proposed
by Karplus, Levitt and Warshel) are present in the literature. They should discuss (at least
qualitatively) how are their energy function model better than these approaches both in
terms of structure prediction and folding time efficiency. Why should the scientific
community adopt this approach instead?
7. In the introduction the authors raise an important point that “because of the complex
nature of the folding process and unknown contributing factors of the energy function,
why and how do proteins adopt a specific structure remains one of the top outstanding
issues in modern science”. Does their study shed any light to protein folding process? If
so, it needs to be written explicitly.
8. In addition to hydrophobic-polar interactions, what other interaction terms (e.g., solavtion
energy etc.) were added to this energy function? It was not clear to me.
Minor corrections:
9. Only in the figure legend of Figure 4, BM is defined as real energy function. Please
define it at the beginning of the text.
10. X and Y axis labels of the figures can be larger in size – difficult to read on printed
version.
11. X-label of Figure 1 should be placed on the outside of the plot. That will make it more
visible. Same comment is valid for Figure S1.
12. The conclusions and interpretation of the results need further work. In it’s current state
the relevance/impact of the work is buried.
13. Authors need to pay close attention to the proper sentence constructions of the
manuscript before next submission. Examples are the following:
Line 18-20, page 11. “pull moves were first proposed as a complete moveset for lattices
in [22] and later proved not to be completely reversible in [14].” Mentioning the name
of the first author or group is preferable.
Line 38-39, page15. “Among 99 types of potential contacts present in 1TCF …”. Should
it be 1CTF?
ppendix B
esponse to Review Comments:
viewers' Comments to Author:
viewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
e paper proposes an interesting way of evaluating protein conformations
rived in ab initio folding simulations. The proposed energy function has
en tested with a genetic algorithms using a discrete lattice model. The
ults presented outperform state-of-the-art algorithms on the tested
quences, and only missed the best RMSD on 3 out of the 12 instances. It is
ll written, with an easy to follow structure and clearly labelled tables and
ures. Results are thoroughly compared to published methods with regard to
e energy, however no comparisons appear to have been made with regard
the efficiency of the conformational space exploration, or computation time.
her a relevant experimental comparison is included or the title adapted to
hlight the properties of the adapted energy function.
ere are some very minor grammatical issues, for example - line 40 in the
stract should read "On the other hand, the HP model considers....". Also, I
uld consider adding some form of shape notation to the lines on Figures 2
ough 5. Printing the paper in black and white makes it difficult to
termine which line is which. Due to the ordered groupings used, Figure 1 is
sier to read when printed in black and white.
the introduction, the authors state that most state of the art results are on
all (less than 75 residue) proteins. Recent literature (including Rashid et al,
13) use sequences from the same CASP9 competition the authors obtain
quences from, but of longer length (most common is up to length 279, or
otein 3on7). Given that the authors suggest their algorithm should perform
tter on longer sequences, it is surprising they limited the length of
quences they tested.
R.- The reviewer is right pointing out that recent literature
luding Rashid et al. 2014 have used longer sequences but those
dies are on HP model. Our model uses 20x20 pairwise energy
eraction matrix provided by Berrera et al. [5] and the state-of-the-art
sults on this model are of Shatabda et al [36] and Rashid et al [31].
th Shatabda et al [36] and Rashid et al [31] used protein sequence
ving length up to 160 amino acid residues. In our experiments we
ve also used sequence ranging 54-160 residues and have provided
mparison with Rashid et al, 2013 as it manifests state-of-the-art
sults in terms of energy and RMSD. Nevertheless, in Sections 3.3 to 3.7
the revised manuscript we have provided results of 5 longer
quences including protein 3on7. However we have only compared
ose results with different versions of our algorithm since there are no
te-of-the-art results on these sequences in our equivalent model.
e title of the paper suggests that the goal of their algorithm is to achieve
ficient" exploration. With respect to this, however, there are a number of
ues. Firstly, the analysis of the algorithm appears to be focused on the
uctures obtained (in terms of free energy and similarity to native
uctures) as opposed to the efficiency of the algorithm. No comparisons are
de to the efficiency of other state-of-the-art algorithms, even though
blished works have used "Energy Evaluations" - the number of times the
ergy of a structure is evaluated during the run, as a metric. Since there is no
alysis, there is no comparison, efficiency-wise, to published material.
R.- The reviewer is absolutely right pointing out that our focus was
structure obtained in terms of energy values and similarity to native
uctures. In the revised manuscript we have provided comparison to
r proposed algorithm with Maher et al., 2014 [24] who have used
nergy Evaluations" metric (the number of times the energy of a
ucture is evaluated during a run) to demonstrate efficiency of
orithm. We thank the reviewer for stressing on the use of this metric
ce this is a machine independent metric and extremely useful for
oviding hardware and implementation independent comparison. But
her et al. [24] have used several energy models i.e. HP, MJ, BM and
veral lattice models. They tested only 4 small sequences on the model
have used (FCC lattice and BM energy). Therefore, in Section 3.6 of
e revised manuscript we have provided comparison considering these
equences (out of 17) using this metric. Since there are no results on
s metric for the other (and larger) 13 sequences in the literature, for
ose we have provided comparison of different versions of our
orithm using this metric (Section 3.6 of the revised manuscript).
rthermore, in section 2.7, the authors state that generic operators are used
haustively, which comes with a "penalty of increased execution time". There
no mention of the severity of this penalty, which, given the title of the paper,
uld be expected. Does this dramatically affect the runtime of the algorithm,
does it cause a minor decrease in efficiency.
R.- Exhaustive operator usage is not a distinctive element of our
orithm. Several papers including state-of-the-art genetic algorithmic
mework of Rashid et al, 2013 [31] used this approach. In fact all of the
rsions of our algorithm and the algorithm we compared to, i.e., Rashid
al. 2013 [31] have used this approach. Exhaustive operator usage
ensifies the exploration and reduces randomness whereas traditional
erator usage makes more diversification and less exploration. In
ect there is a penalty of increased execution time in a single step of the
orithm but the penalty is amortized in the complete run of the
orithm by the reduction of randomness. Considering that efficiency is
ly visible in terms of energy values achieved in a time cut-off settings
number of times the energy of a structure evaluated, exhaustive
erator usage does not decrease efficiency of the algorithm. In Section
of the revised manuscript we have provided justification of using
haustive operator usage by comparing two versions of the same
orithm. One version uses operators exhaustively and other version
es not and former has come out as superior.
Section 3.1, the authors state that the ratio of probabilities for move
ection is 0.4:0.24:0.2:0.15 and that this was crudely computed in pilot runs.
ere is no mention of how these values were chosen, or what property the
thors were attempting to optimise through changing these values in the
ot runs.
R.- In Section 2.7 we have mentioned that we have empirically set
robability distribution for operator selection at each generation.
om some initial runs on smaller sequences we have observed that
er some generations some operators do not contribute to energy
nimization anymore or contributes negligible amount wasting a
nificant number of iterations of the algorithm. So instead of using a
iform probability distribution we have used a non-uniform
tribution to give bias to an operator which contributes largely to
ergy minimization. These values are our crude estimation for the
pirical probability distribution of operator selection.
e paper can be published with the above points addressed. This could
achieved through including an in-depth analysis of the efficiency of their
oposed method in comparison to published literature. It would also be good
see experimental results on longer sequences (as used in other literature)
corroborate the idea that their algorithm works better with longer
quences.
R.- In-depth analysis of the efficiency of the proposed method in
mparison to published literature and experimental results on longer
quences along with analyses are added in the revised manuscript.
ally, Shape notations are added in the figures as suggested by the
viewer. Other minor corrections suggested by the reviewer are
dressed accordingly.
viewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
ar Editor,
the manuscript titled “Efficient Conformational Space Exploration in Ab
tio Protein Folding Simulation”, the authors Ahammed, U. et al. proposed an
proved strategy for ab initio protein folding based on non-uniform scaling
rsion of 20x20 pairwise energy function (which is different from standard
model). From their benchmark studies of twelve proteins, they claim that
ir newly developed method produces structures that are closer to the
tive structures compared to other state-of-the-art methodologies. They also
im that this energy function explores regions of conformational space that
unreachable using other methods.
In general, the manuscript is written in a straightforward manner but
has a few Grammatical/English errors. In this study, they included other
interaction terms (in addition to hydrophobic-polar interaction
included in HP model) that is crucial for the formation of protein
tertiary structures. It is a technically sound study, in which systematic
approaches were adopted and conclusive results were obtained. In my
opinion, however, it will strengthen the manuscript further if the
authors address the following concerns. The questions are the
following:
In their manuscript (lines 15-23, page 19) they state “We notice that there
not much improvement in the RMSD values of the best structures from the
tial random structures. This indicates the absence of strong positive
rrelation between the value of the energy function and RMSD measure.
milar findings are also reported in [35].
tails of the energy function values and corresponding RMSD values are
en in supplementary Table S4.” If there is no strong correlation between
RMSD and energy, how do they explain the significant drop in energy
tween the initial and best structures?
R.- The underlying basis of ab initio modeling is the Anfinsen's
stulation that goes to say that native state of the protein structure
ould be its minimum energy state. Our algorithm adheres to this basis
finding the structure of minimum free energy. The algorithm is an
ergy minimization procedure which uses knowledge based energy
nction of Berrera et al., 2003 [5]. It has been observed that due to the
its of model assumption, knowledge based energy function works
orly in many cases when they are tested on the sequences outside of
eir knowledge domain. That means best energy structure and best
SD structure can be different if RMSD measures and energy functions
e poorly correlated. The inaccuracies of the energy function proposed
Berrera et al., 2003 [5] is revealed by our algorithm and other
odels’ verification paper such as Shatabda et al., 2013 [35].
Are the RMSDs reported in the units of Angstroms? Also, there is no
ticeable improvement between Rashid et al. and their new findings.
pecially for the larger proteins, Rashid et al. produces structures with better
SDs (e.g., 3NBM, 3MQO, 3MRO). In that case, authors should point out how
heir new strategy better than previous models?
R.- Yes, the RMSDs reported are in the units of Angstrom. We
ologize for not stating the unit in our manuscript earlier; however, it
now clearly mentioned in the revised version. There are two major
ttlenecks of protein folding simulation - conformational space
mpling and accuracy of energy function. Our study addresses the
mer bottleneck and it is evident that our proposed method
ccessfully samples such low energy decoys of the conformational
ace that other methods failed to do. If the energy function provided by
rrera et al., 2003 [5] had strong positive correlation with RMSD
asures then this would be reflected in our reported RMSD measures
o. Since our strategy is loosely coupled with energy function we used
, it is still relevant for addressing the bottleneck of conformational
ace sampling.
In Table S3, they report the GW and BM energies of the system for runs
th different time lengths. For smaller proteins, the GW energies obtained
not so different (comparing 30 mins, 1 hr and 2hrs runs), however, the
ferences are prominent not only in GW energies with 30 mins, 1hr and 2hrs
t also much lower than the ones obtained from BM energy model.
y first question is what is the unit of the energy reported here. Is it in
duced energy units? If so, how is it related to the standard units of energy?
thout this comparison, it was difficult to interpret the meaning of these
ferences. And the authors did not explain it.
R.- These are not protein energies; these are differences of protein
ergies reported by two algorithms. That is why these values are much
aller relative to the energy of a protein conformation. Here difference
the subtraction of the energy found using GW guidance in the search
orithm and the energy found using BM guidance in the search
orithm. In Table S3, Difference=GW-BM. Both GW and BM guided
orithms’ energy values are reported using BM energy matrix of
pplementary Table S1. Detailed analysis of these differences is given
Section 3.4.
Authors mention that, they perform 50 independent runs. I am assuming all
folding simulations were performed several times. In that case, they
ould report standard deviation values in the relevant tables and figures for
erence. Statistical data would provide more credibility in their proposed
thodology.
R.- Statistical data are provided in the supplementary Table S3 and
of the revised Manuscript.
Did they perform any direct comparison with other state-of-the art
hniques, e.g., ITasser, for these particular proteins? If so, they should add a
mparative study to the manuscript for demonstrating how their
thodology is superior.
R.- ITasser is a hierarchical modeling algorithm and uses fold
cognition or threading methods. Our algorithm is based on ab initio
odeling and we have provided comparison to the state-of-the-art
sults (Rashid et al, 2013 [31], Ullah et al, 2010 [38], Maher et al., 2014
4]) on our model in Sections 3.3, 3.5 of the revised manuscript.
As the authors acknowledged in the introduction, several other ab initio
ding methods that are based on discrete molecular dynamics (Shirvanyants
et al. J. Phys. Chem., 2012, 116, 8375-8382) and replica exchange molecular
namics simulations (proposed by Karplus, Levitt and Warshel) are present
the literature. They should discuss (at least qualitatively) how are their
ergy function model better than these approaches both in terms of
ucture prediction and folding time efficiency. Why should the scientific
mmunity adopt this approach instead?
R.- Molecular dynamics simulation uses all atom representation
ich requires massive computing power even for the small protein
quences, i.e., sequences having 50 or less amino acid residues. For
nger sequences MD simulation is still unsuitable. That is why
searchers started to use reduced representation where the whole
ino acid is considered as a single sphere. In our study, we have used
e reduced representation. Even in the reduced representation the
mplexity of the algorithm is so massive that we have to resort to
crete lattice model for folding simulation. In the reduced
presentation many lattice models and energy models have been used
far and we have provided all the comparative study to state-of-the-art
sults on our equivalent model (FCC lattice and energy function of
rrer et al., 2003 [5]). We believe and hope that the scientific
mmunity should adopt this approach because it samples better
coys, in terms of energy, than state-of-the-art approaches using the
uivalent model.
In the introduction the authors raise an important point that “because of
complex nature of the folding process and unknown contributing factors
the energy function, why and how do proteins adopt a specific structure
mains one of the top outstanding issues in modern science”. Does their
dy shed any light to protein folding process? If so, it needs to be written
plicitly.
R.- Our study does not shed any light into the natural protein
ding process. There is a long standing issue of overcoming different
ergy barriers in the energy landscape during the mimicking of natural
otein folding in computational algorithms. Sampling conformation
ace efficiently is the biggest barrier in computational protein folding
d our study proposes a strategy to overcome this barrier of
mputational protein folding.
In addition to hydrophobic-polar interactions, what other interaction terms
g., solavtion energy etc.) were added to this energy function? It was not
ar to me.
R.- We have not included any interaction terms; rather we have
ed an existing energy function of Berrera et al., 2003 [5]. Berrera et al.,
03 [5] give a 20x20 pairwise energy function in which various
eractions among alpha-carbons, beta-carbons, side chains and
ckbone atoms have already been considered. The energy function of
rrera et al., 2003 [5] is derived from the potential of mean force
eory and protein-solvent accessibility is estimated from residue
lvent accessibility. For folding simulation previous studies have shown
at only use of this matrix provided by Berrera et al., 2003 [5] forces
arch algorithm to converge frequently into local minima. Our
ntribution is scaling this raw energy matrix non-uniformly in a way
at search algorithm can avoid local minima far efficiently than
evious studies.
nor corrections:
Only in the figure legend of Figure 4, BM is defined as real energy function.
ase define it at the beginning of the text.
. X and Y axis labels of the figures can be larger in size – difficult to read on
nted version.
. X-label of Figure 1 should be placed on the outside of the plot. That will
ke it more visible. Same comment is valid for Figure S1.
. The conclusions and interpretation of the results need further work. In it
s current state the relevance/impact of the work is buried.
. Authors need to pay close attention to the proper sentence constructions
the manuscript before next submission. Examples are the following:
e 18-20, page 11. “pull moves were first proposed as a complete moveset
lattices in [22] and later proved not to be completely reversible in [14].”
ntioning the name of the first author or group is preferable.
e 38-39, page15. “Among 99 types of potential contacts present in 1TCF
. Should it be 1CTF?
R.- All the minor corrections suggested by the reviewer are
dressed accordingly in the revised manuscript.
Appendix C
Dear Editor,
In the revised version of the manuscript titled “Efficient Conformational Space Exploration in Ab
Initio Protein Folding Simulation” as well as in the rebuttal letter, the authors have addressed all
the questions/concerns satisfactorily.
The revised manuscript is well-written and proposes an efficient approach to study protein
folding problems and is supported by the data provided in the manuscript. I have a few minor
comments:
<U+F0B7> Page 11 (line 4-8): consider sentence reconstruction. “So instead of ….largely to energy
minimization”.
<U+F0B7> Page 21 (line 10-11 and line 31-32): consider rephrasing “just better”. In my opinion, this
is not scientific language.
<U+F0B7> Page 23 (line 14): consider rephrasing “not much”.
<U+F0B7> In some cases, commas are missing which makes the sentences hard to understand.
Overall, the research presented here will add knowledge to the protein folding literature and will
contribute in further studies. Barring the minor corrections to be made, the manuscript is ready
for publication in the Royal Society Open Science.
pendix D
ponse to Review Comments of RSOS-150238:
eview Comment:
e 11 (line 4-8): consider sentence reconstruction. “So instead of...largely to energy minimization”.
ponse:
have revised that part as follows:
instead of using a uniform probability distribution we used a non-uniform distribution, learned
pirically from pilot runs, to give bias to an operator which contributes largely to energy minimization.
nstead of using a uniform probability distribution we have used a non-uniform distribution which
earned empirically from pilot runs. This is done to give bias to an operator which contributes
ely to energy minimization.
eview Comment:
e 21 (line 10-11 and line 31-32): consider rephrasing “just better”. In my opinion, this is not scientific
uage.
ponse:
oth cases we have replaced "just better" with "slightly lower (i.e., better)"
eview Comment:
e 23 (line 14): consider rephrasing “not much”.
ponse:
have revised that part as follows:
n though RMSD measures to native structures show not much improvement these are not tied to our
hod;
n though RMSD measures to native structures do not show much improvement these are not tied
ur method;
eview Comment:
ome cases, commas are missing which makes the sentences hard to understand.
ponse:
have updated some sentences accordingly.
Society Open
