Bringing ecology blogging into the scientific fold:
measuring reach and impact of science community blogs
Manu E. Saunders, Meghan A. Duffy, Stephen B. Heard, Margaret Kosmala, Simon R.
Leather, Terrence P. McGlynn, Jeff Ollerton and Amy L. Parachnowitsch
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170957.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170957
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 4 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 5 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170957.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
At one time, my favourite t-shirt slogan was "More people are reading this t--shirt than your
blog" - those days are clearly gone as this paper shows, at least in ecology! This is a well-
constructed, interesting, timely and through-provoking paper that read well. The authors do a
good job of quantifying crucial aspects of blogging and blog readership and provide wide-
ranging discussion both before and after their analyses. Their thoughts on citing blogs will, I
suspect, launch many posts and comments on their respective blogs. I think this paper will be an
important contribution to what is very much a developing field. I have no comments to add and,
for the first time for me, I recommend acceptance without revision.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Julien Dugnoille)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a fantastic and much needed piece that deserves to be published widely. There is a need to
recognise the importance of peer-support and non-specialist dissemination beyond cold, cryptic
descriptions and analyses in academia. Let alone that understanding how academics reach and
influence other audiences is a significant part of what our jobs should be about. The authors
clearly state this upfront: 'academics wish to understand whether particular activities influence
various audiences'. I command the authors for this rare instance of honesty and for aiming to
publish this manuscript with the best academic journals in their discipline. The manuscript is
limpid and very well written. The style is engaging and the results significant for the wider
academic community. I fully support its publication.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170957)
30-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Saunders
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170957 entitled
"Bringing ecology blogs into the scientific fold: measuring reach and impact of science
community blogs" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170957
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
4
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 08-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Both reviewers are very positive about this manuscript and indeed I agree with them. It is an
important piece and a very inspirational read. My only concern is whether the authors need to
consider correcting for multiple testing for their correlations. They have run up to four
correlations per index of interest. Given the low p-values for their significant results, I do not
think this will change any of the interpretations so it is only a minor comment.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
At one time, my favourite t-shirt slogan was "More people are reading this t--shirt than your
blog" - those days are clearly gone as this paper shows, at least in ecology! This is a well-
constructed, interesting, timely and through-provoking paper that read well. The authors do a
good job of quantifying crucial aspects of blogging and blog readership and provide wide-
ranging discussion both before and after their analyses. Their thoughts on citing blogs will, I
suspect, launch many posts and comments on their respective blogs. I think this paper will be an
important contribution to what is very much a developing field. I have no comments to add and,
for the first time for me, I recommend acceptance without revision.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a fantastic and much needed piece that deserves to be published widely. There is a need to
recognise the importance of peer-support and non-specialist dissemination beyond cold, cryptic
descriptions and analyses in academia. Let alone that understanding how academics reach and
influence other audiences is a significant part of what our jobs should be about. The authors
clearly state this upfront: 'academics wish to understand whether particular activities influence
various audiences'. I command the authors for this rare instance of honesty and for aiming to
publish this manuscript with the best academic journals in their discipline. The manuscript is
limpid and very well written. The style is engaging and the results significant for the wider
academic community. I fully support its publication.
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170957)
Dear Editors,
We thank the Associate Editor and Reviewers for the very positive comments on our Manuscript
label_version_2
RSOS-170957, "Bringing ecology blogs into the scientific fold: measuring reach and impact of
science community blogs". We are very pleased that the reviewers are excited by the manuscript.
Only one minor comment from the Associate Editor required attention - we have added text to
the manuscript to respond to this (see detailed response below). We have also updated the end
statements as per RSOS guidelines, and we hope these are suitable. In addition, we have made a
few minor edits to fix typographical errors and clumsy wording. This includes the title, which we
have changed to "Bringing ecology blogging into the scientific fold: measuring reach and impact
of science community blogs", to avoid clumsy repetition of the word 'blogs'.
Thank you again for the positive response to our manuscript.
Yours Sincerely,
Dr Manu Saunders on behalf of co-authors
______________________________
Comments:
Associate Editor: Both reviewers are very positive about this manuscript and indeed I agree with
them. It is an important piece and a very inspirational read. My only concern is whether the
authors need to consider correcting for multiple testing for their correlations. They have run up to
four correlations per index of interest. Given the low p-values for their significant results, I do not
think this will change any of the interpretations so it is only a minor comment.
RESPONSE: The AE is correct: sequential Bonferroni correction does not change any of the
significant/non-significant conclusions. We’ve added a line indicating this (lines 154-155) – we
think this should suffice, rather than including a lengthy table of adjusted alpha values. Thanks
for the suggestion.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer1: At one time, my favourite t-shirt slogan was "More people are reading this t--shirt
than your blog" - those days are clearly gone as this paper shows, at least in ecology! This is a
well-constructed, interesting, timely and through-provoking paper that read well. The authors do
a good job of quantifying crucial aspects of blogging and blog readership and provide wide-
ranging discussion both before and after their analyses. Their thoughts on citing blogs will, I
suspect, launch many posts and comments on their respective blogs. I think this paper will be an
important contribution to what is very much a developing field. I have no comments to add and,
for the first time for me, I recommend acceptance without revision.
Reviewer2:This is a fantastic and much needed piece that deserves to be published widely. There
is a need to recognise the importance of peer-support and non-specialist dissemination beyond
cold, cryptic descriptions and analyses in academia. Let alone that understanding how academics
reach and influence other audiences is a significant part of what our jobs should be about. The
authors clearly state this upfront: 'academics wish to understand whether particular activities
influence various audiences'. I command the authors for this rare instance of honesty and for
aiming to publish this manuscript with the best academic journals in their discipline. The
manuscript is limpid and very well written. The style is engaging and the results significant for
the wider academic community. I fully support its publication.
7
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewers for the positive comments! Neither reviewer has suggested
any changes.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170957.R1)
05-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Saunders,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Bringing ecology blogging into the
scientific fold: measuring reach and impact of science community blogs" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
