Nuclear conversion theory: molecular hydrogen in non-
magnetic insulators
Ernest Ilisca and Filippo Ghiglieno
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160042.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160042
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 August 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 August 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160042.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is supplementary data
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors describe their theoretical interpretation for hydrogen conversion (from ortho to para
H2) on various non-magnetic surfaces. The understanding of conversion processes/rates bears
significance for industry (liquefaction) and in analytical studies (NMR). High conversion rates for
H2 on non-metallic surfaces appear controversial at first sight, since the nuclear spin-isomers in
this molecule are well protected by Pauli exclusion principles, requiring some mechanism
exerting torque on the nuclei. A solid theoretical framework is also timely, given the many recent
reports of fast o-p conversions on such non-magnetic supports.
The authors describe several pathways to that end, including electron-hole pairs, virtual
excitations, etc.
While I agree with the findings, in principle, I would urge the authors to revise their manuscript
to make it more accessible to the interested experimentalist. I am speaking from the latter
perspective. Although there is some discussion in trying to connect the theoretical description to
recent experimental insights, the connection is not very clear and it is difficult to understand how
the theory could be tested/applied or the scaling of experimentally accessible parameters be
quantified.
Some of the paper's premises are not clear. Many of the mentioned substrates of the o-p
conversion experiments are non-magnetic, but clearly have a finite density of states (no gap
between the conduction band and the valence band), i.e., a thin insulator on a metal. It should be
clarified earlier on in the paper that the theory actually also works at the transition to negligible
band-gap.
Also, the paper contains six figures which are rarely used in the description to further an
argument. For instance, Figure 2 contains many of the important distinctions in what orbital the
electron is actually located (solid bonding/anti-bonding, H2 bonding/antibonding) . We feel that
it would be easier to follow the development of the theory if the figures were extensively used.
Furthermore, the figure captions are not self-contained. While obvious to the expert, it is actually
not quite straightforward to identify all elements of the figure and how they would matter for the
conversion rate discussion.
We have also noticed that only few acronyms are actually introduced. What is a REMPI, EELS,
STM, XY, UY, VY, SOCY, SOXY, NMR, etc?
We recommend publication once thought has been given to render these interesting findings
more accessible to readers with the intention to build upon the o-p conversion rate insights. These
would enable the design of materials with desired conversion rates.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
3
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached. Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160042)
29-Jun-2016
Dear Dr Ilisca
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160042 entitled
"Nuclear Conversion Theory:
Molecular Hydrogen in Non-Magnetic Insulators" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
4
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160042
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 08-Jul-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors describe their theoretical interpretation for hydrogen conversion (from ortho to para
H2) on various non-magnetic surfaces. The understanding of conversion processes/rates bears
significance for industry (liquefaction) and in analytical studies (NMR). High conversion rates for
H2 on non-metallic surfaces appear controversial at first sight, since the nuclear spin-isomers in
this molecule are well protected by Pauli exclusion principles, requiring some mechanism
exerting torque on the nuclei. A solid theoretical framework is also timely, given the many recent
reports of fast o-p conversions on such non-magnetic supports.
The authors describe several pathways to that end, including electron-hole pairs, virtual
excitations, etc.
While I agree with the findings, in principle, I would urge the authors to revise their manuscript
to make it more accessible to the interested experimentalist. I am speaking from the latter
perspective. Although there is some discussion in trying to connect the theoretical description to
recent experimental insights, the connection is not very clear and it is difficult to understand how
the theory could be tested/applied or the scaling of experimentally accessible parameters be
quantified.
Some of the paper's premises are not clear. Many of the mentioned substrates of the o-p
conversion experiments are non-magnetic, but clearly have a finite density of states (no gap
6
between the conduction band and the valence band), i.e., a thin insulator on a metal. It should be
clarified earlier on in the paper that the theory actually also works at the transition to negligible
band-gap.
Also, the paper contains six figures which are rarely used in the description to further an
argument. For instance, Figure 2 contains many of the important distinctions in what orbital the
electron is actually located (solid bonding/anti-bonding, H2 bonding/antibonding) . We feel that
it would be easier to follow the development of the theory if the figures were extensively used.
Furthermore, the figure captions are not self-contained. While obvious to the expert, it is actually
not quite straightforward to identify all elements of the figure and how they would matter for the
conversion rate discussion.
We have also noticed that only few acronyms are actually introduced. What is a REMPI, EELS,
STM, XY, UY, VY, SOCY, SOXY, NMR, etc?
We recommend publication once thought has been given to render these interesting findings
more accessible to readers with the intention to build upon the o-p conversion rate insights. These
would enable the design of materials with desired conversion rates.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160042)
See Appendix B.
pendix A
is a comprehensive theoretical paper outlining the mechanisms by which o-p conversion can occur
H2 adsorbed on a non-magnetic insulator. While it certainly merits publication there are a few issues
uld like to see addressed:
1) There needs to be a clearer delineation between what is new in this article and what is summary
of the current state of the field (most of which can be attributed to the author).
2) Discussion of the theory papers that describe the binding mechanism of H2 at different sites
within MOFs, for example, Kim, Kang and Wei in Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 236105 (2010) and E.
Tsivion, Long and Head-Gordon in J. Am. Chem Soc. 136, 17827 (2014). In particular these
describe charge transfer to the anti-bonding H2 orbitals which is proposed by the author as a
central factor in o-p conversion.
3) The author’s model assumes that the H2 center of mass motion is erratic. How is this reconciled
with data indicating a quantized COM motion for a bound H2 at a particular MOF site? Is the
author assuming that this bound motion does not lead to o-p conversion? For the temperatures
considered can the author estimate the fraction of time that a H2 molecule spends in a “bound”
state versus moving between sites?
Appendix B
Manuscript RSOS-160042 :
"Nuclear Conversion Theory: Molecular Hydrogen in Non-Magnetic Insulators"
Dear Referee,
We have taken into account your remarks and criticisms. In the following your requires are in
ed and our responses in black. Additions and corrections displayed in the manuscript pdf
version are in red.
Responses to Reviewer: 1
While I agree with the findings, in principle, I would urge the authors to revise their
manuscript to make it more accessible to the interested experimentalist. I am speaking from
he latter perspective. Although there is some discussion in trying to connect the theoretical
description to recent experimental insights, the connection is not very clear and it is difficult
o understand how the theory could be tested/applied or the scaling of experimentally
accessible parameters be quantified.
While we agree with your goal, the subject and method of that paper is slightly different.
Our first objective is to build a theory of hydrogen conversion on non-magnetic solids : (i)
construct a theoretical groundbasis displaying the general quantum symmetries that are at
he origin of the observations (ii) identify the observables whose averages are measured. Most
experimentalists are not aware of an alternative to the dipolar magnetic conversion
mechanism and imagine hidden impuirities or nuclear isotopes… although it was
demonstrated [19] that it is not compatible with experiments.
Secondly, we made an important effort to classify the variety of conversion times (orders of
magnitude from minutes up to hundred of hours) on the basis of experimentally accessible
parameters such as characteristic energies : band gap, work functions, molecular affinity and
onization, spin-orbit couplings…. See analysis at the end of chapter 4 (p. 24-5) and an
additional sentence p. 28.
nterpretation in terms of temperature, hydrogen uptake… We hope that our framework will
stimulate more experimental studies and new ab-initio calculations, numerical simulations…
Until then, we are preparing a few papers that will apply our theory to particular substrates
and molecular scatterings. One is already prepared to be submitted : it is dedicated to the
silicon conversion rates (molecules trapped inside tetrahedral nanocages) in function of
growing or alloying structures, initial preparation and experimental temperatures…
Some of the paper's premises are not clear. Many of the mentioned substrates of the o-p
conversion experiments are non-magnetic, but clearly have a finite density of states (no gap
between the conduction band and the valence band), i.e., a thin insulator on a metal. It should
be clarified earlier on in the paper that the theory actually also works at the transition to
negligible band-gap.
The theory actually also works for metals and semi-metals…. and we have introduced
supplementary sentences (see p.4, 29-30)
Also, the paper contains six figures which are rarely used in the description to further an
argument. For instance, Figure 2 contains many of the important distinctions in what orbital
he electron is actually located (solid bonding/anti-bonding, H2 bonding/antibonding) . We
eel that it would be easier to follow the development of the theory if the figures were
extensively used. Furthermore, the figure captions are not self-contained. While obvious to
he expert, it is actually not quite straightforward to identify all elements of the figure and
how they would matter for the conversion rate discussion.
We have introduced additional references to the figures (see p.7,8,9,10,11,13,16,24,25,26..)
and supplementary comments inside the figures captions.
We have also noticed that only few acronyms are actually introduced. What is a REMPI,
EELS, STM, XY, UY, VY, SOCY, SOXY, NMR, etc?
We have introduced explicit definitions of these acronyms in the text, when they appear
irst, (see p. 2,3,14..) and added a glossary in the Annex.
"Nuclear Conversion Theory: Molecular Hydrogen in Non-Magnetic Insulators"
Dear Referee,
We have taken into account your remarks and criticisms. In the following your requires are in
ed and our responses in black. Additions and corrections displayed in the manuscript pdf
version are in red.
Responses to Reviewer: 2
There needs to be a clearer delineation between what is new in this article and what is
summary of the current state of the field (most of which can be attributed to the author).
Introduced p. 4 and 5.
Discussion of the theory papers that describe the binding mechanism of H2 at different sites
within MOFs, for example, Kim, Kang and Wei in Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 236105 (2010) and
E.Tsivion, Long and Head-Gordon in J. Am. Chem Soc. 136, 17827 (2014). In particular these
describe charge transfer to anti-bonding H2 orbitals which is proposed by the author as a
central factor in o-p conversion.
We have introduced a few sentences to underline the bonding of the anti-bonding H2 orbitals
with the solid conduction band (see in the caption of figure 1 and p.5,7.. and added the
eference 39 of the very interesting paper : E.Tsivion, Long and Head-Gordon in J. Am. Chem
Soc. 136, 17827 (2014). (thank you for that reference).
The author’s model assumes that the H2 center of mass motion is erratic. How is this
econciled with data indicating a quantized COM motion for a bound H2 at a particular MOF
site? Is the author assuming that this bound motion does not lead to o-p conversion?
You are wright : many momenta might contribute to the molecular conversion. For
example, I (E.I.) have studied 24 years ago the electronic orbital angular momentum
transfer and found it could be important in the analysis of the Cu(100) observations realized
at Chambers University.
molecular COM motion is quantized, internal vibrations, solid phonons, ad- and de-sorption
exchanges, inter-sites jumps,… all of these mix their effects. Consequently, the time
evolution of the complex system becomes mostly incoherent (no memory) and can be
described by a random variable of the thermostat.
Our first objective is to build an illustrative theory of hydrogen conversion on non-magnetic
solids displaying the quantum required symmetries… After that, each scattering, each
temperature,.. is particular. We have chosen to illustrate the general formula in the case
of a random motion because it appears to be a frequent case (very large IR translational
linewidths in the cases of MOF 5 or 74), main incoherent electronic fluctuations (in Silicon
cages)…
Translational quantification becomes important in narrow cages and deep wells. In such
cases translational and vibrational angular momenta might contribute also to the transfer
towards the molecular rotation and spin.
We have added a sentence p.12.
For the temperatures considered, can the author estimate the fraction of time that a H2
molecule spends in a “bound” state versus moving between sites?
These are related to the different sites bindings and generally illustrated by their different
senthalpic heats of adsorption. It is also function of the number of secondary sites and of the
experimental temperature. (their ratio is often estimated as exp- <U+F044>E/kT, where <U+F044>E is the heat
difference between the sites, but I do not feel very confident with such an approximation).
That question is however becoming increasingly actual in the searchs of higher energetic sites
> 15 kJmol-1) for hydrogen storage purpose (see Long and co…). But more details remain
beyond the scope of that paper.
Society Open
