Using geometric algebra to represent curvature in shell
theory with applications to Starling resistors
A. L. Gregory, A. Agarwal and J. Lasenby
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171212.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171212
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171212.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors derive expressions for change of curvature that they use to analyze tube bending,
showing that actual tubes bend in a similar manner to their mathematical model. This
contribution makes the paper worth publishing. I do have the following minor concerns that the
authors should consider addressing; only the first of this is particularly significant (and even it is
fairly minor). I will note that I do not have a background in shell deformation, which may
influence how the authors treat some of my comments.
My biggest concern is that the claim in the abstract is that the authors "introduce a new
decomposition of the change of curvature tensor". Alas, in reading Section 2, where they derive
these formulas, I would be hard pressed to say which equations are exactly their contribution.
Eg, the last sentence of Section 2 should explicitly state the equation number(s) of the equations
that they feel are their contribution, and the conclusions should again state these equations as
their claimed contribution.
First, the authors mention "shells" without even a one sentence or phrase explaining what they
mean. This is possibly acceptable if the intended audience is expected to be familiar with the
term, but the half-dozen phrase statement of what a shell is might prove helpful.
Second, the geometric algebra overview is quite dense. Possibly [18] is a sufficient reference for
the reader wanting a bit more background, but possibly a pointer to [22] for the interested reader
either in the second paragraph of Section 1 or in the 2nd or 3rd paragraph of Section 2 could be
helpful.
A minor point that I'm unsure of how to address (or indeed, if it even needs to be addressed) is
that the symbols for commutator product and cross product are nearly identical. This perhaps
isn't a particularly serious concern because they authors made it clear which product they meant
when they used them.
In section 2, 2 sentences above (2.5). the spacing of R(Y)=RY\tilde{R} looks odd, with space
appearing between the Y and the \tilde{R} where I would expect none.
In the caption to Figure 1, I would delete the phrase "In reality"
Section 4(a) says the are required to extimate [sic] the values of tr(E^2), etc. Other than the
misspelling of "estimate", the authors didn't define "tr", and I at least didn't know what 'tr'
referred to.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Chris Doran)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper is largely acceptable as it is, but there are some improvements that need to be made.
1. The most significant is the commitment to open data and open code. This is not addressed in
the current paper.
2. In some places the language needs tightening up. I believe sections of the paper were written
by a PhD student, and some copy editing is required. Comments like "the working fluid is
obviously air" in the introduction do not read well.
3. Section 2 deals with an object that is given the \partial symbol and "is the intrinsic vector
derivative to any surface in the manifold". This cannot be an correct definition. Since their
\partial is always contracted with a tangent vector I think the authors just mean that it is the
vector derivative in 3D. But as it stands they are using the same symbol for different operators in
different spaces.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171212)
24-Oct-2017
Dear Mr Gregory
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171212 entitled
"Using geometric algebra to represent curvature in shell theory with applications to Starling
resistors" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
4
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171212
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
5
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors derive expressions for change of curvature that they use to analyze tube bending,
showing that actual tubes bend in a similar manner to their mathematical model. This
contribution makes the paper worth publishing. I do have the following minor concerns that the
authors should consider addressing; only the first of this is particularly significant (and even it is
fairly minor). I will note that I do not have a background in shell deformation, which may
influence how the authors treat some of my comments.
My biggest concern is that the claim in the abstract is that the authors "introduce a new
decomposition of the change of curvature tensor". Alas, in reading Section 2, where they derive
these formulas, I would be hard pressed to say which equations are exactly their contribution.
6
Eg, the last sentence of Section 2 should explicitly state the equation number(s) of the equations
that they feel are their contribution, and the conclusions should again state these equations as
their claimed contribution.
First, the authors mention "shells" without even a one sentence or phrase explaining what they
mean. This is possibly acceptable if the intended audience is expected to be familiar with the
term, but the half-dozen phrase statement of what a shell is might prove helpful.
Second, the geometric algebra overview is quite dense. Possibly [18] is a sufficient reference for
the reader wanting a bit more background, but possibly a pointer to [22] for the interested reader
either in the second paragraph of Section 1 or in the 2nd or 3rd paragraph of Section 2 could be
helpful.
A minor point that I'm unsure of how to address (or indeed, if it even needs to be addressed) is
that the symbols for commutator product and cross product are nearly identical. This perhaps
isn't a particularly serious concern because they authors made it clear which product they meant
when they used them.
In section 2, 2 sentences above (2.5). the spacing of R(Y)=RY\tilde{R} looks odd, with space
appearing between the Y and the \tilde{R} where I would expect none.
In the caption to Figure 1, I would delete the phrase "In reality"
Section 4(a) says the are required to extimate [sic] the values of tr(E^2), etc. Other than the
misspelling of "estimate", the authors didn't define "tr", and I at least didn't know what 'tr'
referred to.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is largely acceptable as it is, but there are some improvements that need to be made.
1. The most significant is the commitment to open data and open code. This is not addressed in
the current paper.
2. In some places the language needs tightening up. I believe sections of the paper were written
by a PhD student, and some copy editing is required. Comments like "the working fluid is
obviously air" in the introduction do not read well.
3. Section 2 deals with an object that is given the \partial symbol and "is the intrinsic vector
derivative to any surface in the manifold". This cannot be an correct definition. Since their
\partial is always contracted with a tangent vector I think the authors just mean that it is the
vector derivative in 3D. But as it stands they are using the same symbol for different operators in
different spaces.
Author’s Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171212)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171212.R1)
27-Oct-2017
Dear Mr Gregory,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Using geometric algebra to represent
curvature in shell theory with applications to Starling resistors" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Editors,
Many thanks for considering our paper, we have made the following edits in response to the reviewers
comments,
****** Reviewer 1
My biggest concern is that the claim in the abstract is that the authors "introduce a new decomposition
of the change of curvature tensor". Alas, in reading Section 2, where they derive these formulas, I would
be hard pressed to say which equations are exactly their contribution. Eg, the last sentence of Section 2
should explicitly state the equation number(s) of the equations that they feel are their contribution, and
the conclusions should again state these equations as their claimed contribution.
- The last paragraph of §2 and conclusion have had references to the new form of the change of
curvature tensor included explicitly (equation 2.12).
The authors mention "shells" without even a one sentence or phrase explaining what they mean. This is
possibly acceptable if the intended audience is expected to be familiar with the term, but the half-dozen
phrase statement of what a shell is might prove helpful.
- A paragraph at the start of §2 has been included giving an introduction to shells and the assumptions
associated with them.
The geometric algebra overview is quite dense. Possibly [18] is a sufficient reference for the reader
wanting a bit more background, but possibly a pointer to [22] for the interested reader either in the
second paragraph of Section 1 or in the 2nd or 3rd paragraph of Section 2 could be helpful.
- The introduction of geometric algebra has been filleted, though we have kept the section of the
introduction that demonstrates uses of rotors since we feel that this is of very direct relevance to the
paper.
A minor point that I'm unsure of how to address (or indeed, if it even needs to be addressed) is that the
symbols for commutator product and cross product are nearly identical. This perhaps isn't a particularly
serious concern because they authors made it clear which product they meant when they used them.
- We agree that the similarity of the commutator and cross product symbols can be confusing, but we
also don’t want to change notation too significantly from the introductory texts on geometric algebra
[22,§4.1.3], in which there is usually no difference between the commutator and cross products. Hence
we have tried to make it clear which is being used at the time of use. We have also increased the
`boldness’ of the cross product symbol to help differentiate the two.
In section 2, 2 sentences above (2.5). the spacing of R(Y)=RY\tilde{R} looks odd, with space appearing
between the Y and the \tilde{R} where I would expect none.
- The space in R(Y)=RY\tilde{R}, 2 sentences above equation 2.5, has been removed.
In the caption to Figure 1, I would delete the phrase "In reality"
- “In reality” in the caption of figure 1 has been removed.
Section 4(a) says the are required to extimate [sic] the values of tr(E^2), etc. Other than the
misspelling of "estimate", the authors didn't define "tr", and I at least didn't know what 'tr' referred to.
- tr is the trace operator. Its first use is in equation 2.1, and in the following paragraph we have included
a clarified definition. We have also corrected the spelling of “extimate” at the start of §4a
****** Reviewer 2
The most significant is the commitment to open data and open code. This is not addressed in the current
paper.
- The database for the paper is available at https://doi.org/10.17863/CAM.10363, and this is included in
the “Data Accessibility” statement.
In some places the language needs tightening up. I believe sections of the paper were written by a PhD
student, and some copy editing is required. Comments like "the working fluid is obviously air" in the
introduction do not read well.
- Copy editing has been completed.
Section 2 deals with an object that is given the \partial symbol and "is the intrinsic vector derivative to
any surface in the manifold". This cannot be an correct definition. Since their \partial is always
contracted with a tangent vector I think the authors just mean that it is the vector derivative in 3D. But
as it stands they are using the same symbol for different operators in different spaces.
- The quote is not quite right, we say that \partial is “the intrinsic vector derivative to any surface or
manifold”. This is the standard definition of the intrinsic vector derivative used by, for example,
[22,§6.5.1]. Our use of the phrase “surface or manifold” is possibly confusing, so we have deleted “or
manifold”. If \nabla is the vector derivative of 3D space, then \partial is P(\nabla) where P is the
projection operator from 3D space to the surface. What this means is that partial only includes
derivatives in directions tangential to the surface, but can return results that are not tangential to the
surface. When \partial is contracted with a vector tangent to the surface, it gives the same result as
when that tangent vector is contracted with \nabla, however, in general, \partial and \nabla are not
identical. This is explained in [18], and we have included an additional reference explaining this. \partial
can be used on the spatial or reference configurations, and the relationship between these two is
explained in equation 2.6.
[18] Gregory AL, Lasenby J, Agarwal A. 2017 The Elastic Theory of Shells using Geometric Algebra. R.
Soc. Open Sci. 4, 170065.
[22] Doran C, Lasenby AN. 2003 Geometric Algebra for Physicists. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Best wishes,
Alastair Gregory, Anurag Agarwal, and Joan Lasenby
Society Open
