Rotating panoramic view: interaction between visual and
olfactory cues in ants
Mai Minoura, Kohei Sonoda, Tomoko Sakiyama and Yukio-Pegio Gunji
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150426.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150426
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 22 August 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 2 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 24 December 2015
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140441.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Tom Collett)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I made two attempts to access the supplementary files and failed.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This ingenious sequence of experiments investigates how directional cues afforded by a visual
panorama combine with olfactory cues from a pheromone trail to guide ants towards their nest.
The technique devised is to rotate a segment of a pheromone trail relative to the stationary
panorama while ants are walking along the trail towards their nest. By matching the speed of
rotation (3 revs/min) to the ants’ walking speed, the pheromone trail begins oriented along the
food-nest axis and becomes oriented perpendicularly to that axis when the ant is roughly halfway
along the segment. The ants make a U-turn at about this point and so travel in a nest-ward
direction without leaving the trail.
These results suggest to me that the ants like to stick to the pheromone trail and use visual input
to determine their direction of travel along the trail. i.e. Throughout the trail the ants’ direction is
determined by the panorama, since the trail itself has no polarity. In the Discussion of the paper a
different hypothesis is suggested but arguments in its favour are not presented. If I have
understood it, the hypothesis given (page 5 lines 22-28) is that ants relied on the trail for
directional cues in the first half of their travel and on the panorama in the second half.
A good series of control experiments indicates that the ants’ seemingly purposeful U-turn is
indeed mediated by visual information and that the response requires a pheromone trail.
Nonetheless, an additional control would make for a more complete story. The authors assume
that the ants turn when their direction of travel no longer brings them closer to the nest as
indicated by the positional visual information provided by the panorama. An alternative
possibility is that the U-turns are generated solely by the retinal image motion produced by
rotating the pheromone trail within stationary surroundings, irrespective of the details of the
pattern. I.e. the ants are compensating for the imposed directional change. It could be argued that
this possibility is implausible because U-turns are mostly generated when the trail is
perpendicular to the feeder-nest axis. But it is feasible that the motion input is integrated with a
U-turn generated when the integrated value reaches some threshold. The reduced number of U
turns found in Expt 2 also hints at this possibility. A simple way to test this 'image motion
compensation' suggestion suggestion is to place the rotating disk and pheromone lane within a
cylinder, but instead of a uniform white inner wall, decorate the wall with a homogenous pattern
that provides motion but not positional information (e.g. 30deg wide alternating black and white
vertical stripes). Whatever the outcome of this control, the findings of the paper would still be
valuable.
It is important to state whether these experiments were performed on ants on their first foraging
trip or whether they had prior experience of foraging on the turn table and so are familiar with
the visual panorama or whether they might have gained visual experience in other ways before
the experiments began. In addition to work on Lasius, work on a tropical ant (Harrison, J. F.,
Fewell, J. H., Stiller, T. M., & Breed, M. D. (1989). Effects of experience on use of orientation cues
in the giant tropical ant. Animal behaviour, 37, 869-871) shows that naive ants are guided
predominantly by pheromone cues whereas ants experienced with their surroundings ignore
pheromone cues when there is a conflict between pheromone and visual information. If this
behaviour is consistent across species, your results are suggestive of ants with little experience of
the panorama. It would be interesting to know how the ants behave on an uncoated rotating disk.
My major problem with the presentation of the paper is that the account is not easy to follow on
first reading. The comments below are mostly suggestions to help make the paper more readable
or to point out portions that I did not understand.
3
Page 1 lines The abstract is written assuming that the use of directional information changes
along the trail. Can it be written more factually without implying that hypothesis?
Page 1 Line 37: A summary sentence to encapsulate the results might be: ‘our results suggest that
ants can use a visual panorama to determine in which direction to travel along a pheromone
trail.’ I think that the last two sentences go beyond what the data show.
Page 1 Line 58 Lasius rather than Lusius
Page 2 Line 14 when (rather then where) different cues conflict
Page 2 Lines 23 to 28. The meaning of the sentence beginning ‘Although…’ is unclear to me.
Page 2 Lines 29 to 40. This paragraph is too compressed for easy understanding. I only followed
it after on a second reading of the paper. Expand it to state the question you wish to answer and
then explain your experimental method for answering that question.
Page 2 Line 56 explain how the pheromone was obtained and how the plate was coated and how
long-lived the pheromone trail is.
Page 2 line 58 since the white paper was a control, it would be easier for a reader if you start by
describing the rotating plate in a stationary room as a means of changing the orientation of the
pheromone trail relative to visual cues.
Page 3 line 14. Does this mean that the camera was pointing downwards to record a plan view of
the rotating disk.
Page 3 lines 33 to 34. Expand e.g. ‘As the turntable rotates, the direction of the pheromone trail
diverges increasingly from the food-nest axis. If ants are to reach the nest without leaving the
trail, they must at some point make a U-turn and retrace their steps on the trail and so move
towards the visually defined position of the nest. Alternatively, ants could abandon the trail and
aim continuously at the visually defined nest position. In the first experiment the speed of
rotation was 3 revolutions per minute. Typically, it took ants 10 seconds to walk across the disk.
Page 3 Line 45.
Suggestion: 'In this experiment the speed of rotation of the disk was reduced to 1 revolution per
minute so that the ants could reach the edge before the disk had rotated through 90 degrees.
Thus, at this rotational speed ants and had no need to make a U-turn.'
Page 4 lines 10 to 14.
'To test the ants' behaviour when there was no pheromone trail, we used a rotating 'bridge'
instead of a rotating disk. The width of the bridge (3cm) was the same as the lane. In one
experiment the bridge was coated with pheromone and in a second experiment the bridge was
not treated. Rotational speed was 3 revolutions per min, as in experiment 1.'
Page 4 line 19-20 'All the foraging trajectories of one treatment were collected and their density
along the trail is shown with a colour code going from red (dense) through yellow to white (least
dense)'
Page 4 line 44. Would help to refer to Fig 1a at this point.
Page 4 lines 52 and 53. Might be better to put these lines in the description of Expt. 1. In your
account start by orienting the reader by giving a general description.
4
e.g. ‘In this experiment the rotational speed of the disk (3 r/min) was chosen so that the ants
would reach the nest if they made a U-turn about halfway along the lane. The ants trajectory on
the disk is shown in Fig 1b when the disk rotated (left) and when it was stationary (right).’
Since U-turns are defined in a restricted way (page 4 lines 29 to 32) and other kinds of turns
presumably also occur it would be helpful to give a figure in the main text rather than the
supplement showing examples of typical trajectories of all the experiments and to be given
information about the speed of walking; whether it is the same between experiments and
whether and how it changes as ants walk along the trail.
Page 5 lines 8-13. Suggestion: 'On a rotating disk, the ants first ran along the pheromone lane
towards the centre of the disk and then made a U-turn so that, relative to the rotating disk, they
returned to the starting point. But relative to the stationary room, their U-shaped path brought
the ants to the region of the nest. When the disk was stationary the ants traversed the whole
length of the pheromone trail to reach the nest.'
Page 5 line 24. 'shows the distribution of U turns plotted against the orientation of the pheromone
lane. 0 and 180 degs indicates that the lane is parallel to the food-nest axis and 90 degs indicates
that the lane is perpendicular to that axis.'
Page 5 lines 28-29. The result could just mean that the ant changes direction on the lane so that its
heading is more towards the nest than the food.
Page 5 line 32. Perhaps be simpler to follow if you to start with the reason for this control
experiment. E.g. ‘What happens if the pheromone lane rotates so slowly (1 r/min) that the ants
can reach the nest region without making a U-turn?
Page 5 line 39. Since there are almost no U-turns when the disk is stationary (Fig 1) or when it
rotates within a white drum, it does not seem correct to state that U-turn behaviour is unaffected
by the slow rotation. It would be useful to include a plot, as in Fig 1e, to show the angle of the
pheromone lane at which each U-turn occurs.
Page 5 line 45. It would help to describe this experiment in a more reader friendly way. E.g.: ‘In
this experiment the disk was rotated at 3 r/min within a uniform white drum so that the rotation
would not generate any visual input. Without visual input, the number of U-turns was very low
(Fig 3d) and most ants walked the complete length of the pheromone trail (Fig 3b). Consequently,
their position at the end of the trail was closer to the feeder than to the nest (Fig 3c).’
Page 5 line 54 etc. Again, the results of this experiment would be easier to follow if the start were
written in a narrative style. E.g. ‘When the rotating bridge was coated with pheromone, the ants
made a U-turn (Fig. 3h,i) as in Fig. 1d,e. Thus, they returned to the start of the pheromone trail
(Fig 4f) and ended up on the nest side (Fig 4g). When the bridge was uncoated, the ants rarely
made U-turns.....'
Discussion: My general worry about your Discussion is that you do not consider possible
alternative explanations of your interesting findings (see Initial paragraph for some suggestions).
You re-state the findings without arguing in detail how they might be interpreted.
Page 6 Line 26. Say the what local information is used for. e.g. guiding foraging routes.
Page 6 Line 32 what do you mean by 'contextual cue' here?
Page 6 Line 33-38. Section from 'Researchers ...........conditions'. This controversy isn't very
relevant to your study. You could miss it out and just say: "Here, we use the word 'panorama'
......."
5
Page 6 Line 48- Page 7 line 10. This detailed description of the experiments seems too much a
recapitulation of the results.
Page 7 Line 11 et seq. You should discuss the several possible explanations of your results and
argue the pros and cons of each possibility in some detail. In particular it's not clear whether ants
are using the motion or the position of the panorama to trigger a U-turn. What would happen if
the disk were stepped rather than rotated through 100 degs? Would the ants still make a U-turn?
Fig 1 and legend
Page 11 Line 21 at the end of (b) Add: 'The trajectories are shown on the disk as though the disk
had not rotated'. It might help to add an 'F' to the right side of the lane and an 'N' to the left side.
It would also help to label the two columns: '3 rev/min' and '0 rev/min'
Fig 3 and legend. Why not divide this Fig into two, one Fig for experiment 3 and another for 4i
and 4ii?
Tom Collett
University of Sussex
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an interesting study into the interaction of chemical trail following and visual cues in ants,
but it is not very clearly presented, and the interpretation of the results seems unnecessarily
complex. Basically what seems to be shown is that this species of ants will follow a pheromone
trail but that this trail is not inherently directional, therefore they also use visual cues to
disambiguate the direction, and will reverse direction if the panorama is (gradually) reversed.
Title: it is really not clear why the title refers to a ‘movie’. In the current study, a single snapshot
or remembered landmark direction would suffice to explain the results.
6
Abstract: this sets up the problem as “How fast and accurate can insects re-evaluate each type of
information and navigate under conditions where the reliability of the types of information
changes?” and the results as showing “that ants can precisely respond to continuous degree
changes for inconsistencies between different cues, odors and visual information”. But there is
nothing in this study which suggests ants are ‘re-evaluating’ anything, or that they are influenced
by the cue reliability, or are responding in a precise or continuous way to the cue inconsistencies.
Some of these questions might be answered by more detailed analysis of the ant trajectories. Do
ants gradually reorient in response to gradual rotation (do they even go off the trail in following
the panorama) or do they exhibit a ‘decision point’ (U-turn)? If the latter, how variable is this for
different ants, and how long do they take to make it? Would they make a change if the rotation
was sudden? Can they use the visual cues alone? Experiment 4 shows they do not reverse if
rotated with no trail, but would they go home successfully if there was no trail and no rotation, or
become equally confused? Would the result be the same without a bridge? What minimum speed
of rotation would cause them to become confused in the absence of odour?
Intro, p2 line 25, it is not clear what is meant by ‘we can extract additional evidence that ants can
use to adapt their strategies’ – what additional evidence are the ants using, or do you mean the
study referenced can be used by the authors as evidence that ants can adapt their strategies?
The end of the introduction again refers to the speed and accuracy of cue combination, and the
continuous nature of the induced cue conflict. But the behaviour of the ants and analysis does not
show ‘accuracy’, just that they make one of two choices, to continue despite the panorama, or
reorient.
Methods: it is unclear to what extent the ants had pre-training that might have familiarised them
with the visual surroundings- had they followed the same route frequently before testing? Or
was this potentially their first foraging trip along this route? A picture of the visual surroundings
(e.g. panorama from the centre of the turn table) should be included.
I found it very hard to understand the analysis method and had to reread this several times. Is it
correct that the (statistically) analysed position of the ants is always only with reference to the
single dimension of the foraging lane, and not the two dimensional path as shown in 1b? How
exactly is a single location for the U-turn determined, given that the existence of a U-turn is
defined with respect to where the ants returned – e.g. did no ants make multiple direction
reversals? Particularly around line 26 on (p4) it would be much clearer if the three different
measures used were explained in the order that they are reported in the results: 1) the orientation
of the ‘end points’ which I take to mean the orientation with respect to the home direction at
which the ants reached the edge of the table (actually, I am still confused about this as in the
figure captions this is described as the “angle formed by the lane when the ants reached to the
edge of the rotating table” – does that mean ants were always in the lane at that point, and never
left the lane to follow visual cues to the edge? This is very important to clarify); simple
comparison of U-turn frequency under different conditions; the orientation of the foraging lane
with respect to the panorama when each ant made its U-turn. And then explain mean orientation
vectors, circular statistics etc.
Results, fig 1b, how is the ‘half-way’ point decided that allows each half of the trajectory to be
shown separately? Is it by duration of the path, or ants reaching the half-way point along the
lane? It is not clear if the spread of end directions reflects ants always reaching the edge within
the odour lane but at different times (so the lane was not aligned to the home position) or
reaching the edge in a position outside the lane (see the issue mentioned above in methods about
the lack of clarity of this measure). If both occured, it might be appropriate to analyse separately.
Experiment 2B seems interesting as it looks like the slow rotation leads to some deviation away
from the odour trail in favour of staying aligned with the visual cues. This is interesting and
should be discussed.
7
Experiment 4 needs the control condition of no pheromone and no rotation. Maybe ants just need
a pheromone trail to home, irrespective of how the visual environment might be changing or not.
Discussion: it seems odd to start here with lengthy discussion of the potential difference between
panoramic and landmark cues in order to simply say that these are not relevant to this
experiment. If it is really necessary to explain what they mean by ‘panorama’ then this belongs in
the introduction or methods, not in ‘prime’ place at the start of the discussion.
P7 line 10 “These results suggest that ants can perceive a rotating panorama and precisely use it
for guidance when they almost lose sight of their direction. The evidence also supports theories
that insects use information based on motion parallax or optic flow”. Not really, they show that a
large enough alteration in the panorama will override continuing in the same direction along a
trail. But it seems likely that trail information is inherently ambiguous for a 180 shift. It would
need closer analysis of the actual tracks and of different speeds, or jumps, in the visual
information to determine if the guidance is precise and/or depends on visual motion.
P7 Line 27 on: “The data directly show that ants can efficiently and immediately switch between
multiple uses of navigate information within approximately 10 seconds, while previous studies
have suggested that such changes require a relatively long period of time [17-19].” I do not think
this is an accurate reflection either of these results or of the (much wider than cited) exisiting
evidence about how quickly ants can switch between strategies or strategy combinations.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Antoine Wystrach)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors investigate here the paths taken by lasius niger ants homing on a rotating table or
corridor. Before all, I would like to stress that I find the experimental design excellent, as it enable
to set olfactory and visual cue in conflict in a continuous manner, perform the appropriate control
condition (remove the cue independently) and crucially, without interfering directly with the
animal. This is a great achievement and the results should contribute greatly to our
understanding of how information from different modality is integrated in ants. For these
8
reasons I believe this study will be greatly cited and should be published in the royal society open
science journal.
But before publication I have several remarks and suggestions about the way data are analysed,
introduced and discussed, as I am not sure the authors exploit fully their data yet.
I) Remarks and suggestions about data analysis.
A) You display the first halves of the paths in blue and the second halves in red, overlaid. By
classifying the paths into two halves for each ants, you present information about the path in
relation to the path travelled itself rather than in relation to the information perceived by the ants.
Suggestion:
I think it would be much more revealing to divide the paths into segments according to the
current extent of the angular conflict between the directions indicated by olfaction vs. vision (i.e.
the current orientation of the bridge). For instance, it would be easy to divide each ants path into
3 portions: 1-path taken during the first 60 degree of rotation of the bridge (i.e. odour and vision
relatively in phase); 2- from 60 to 120 degree (i.e. odour and vision are in great conflict); 3- from
120 to 180 degree (i.e. odour and vision are in phase again, if the ants has achieved a U-turn).
Given that the bridge rotates a constant speed within condition, this can be simply achieved by
dividing the paths into time bins. (I guess most of the data fall into the first 180degree of bridge
rotation); if not you could divide the whole 360degree into four 90degree bins (2 with odour and
vision in phases and 2 odour and vision in conflicts).
Thus you could display the paths independently for these different categories (no-conflict; high-
conflict; no-conflict if U-turned) into different panels (you can simply annotate where the path
end or start with a small dot). As an analysis you should show the average path sinuosity
(distance walked divided by bee line distance beginning and end of the path), and crucially, the
average speed for these three categories (I guess it would drop when the cue are in conflict (60-
120 degree category)), because both measures are likely to be indicative of the presence of a
conflict. This would shed light on the actual interaction between odour vs. visual information on
the resulting behaviour.
B) You display a circular plot of “the angle formed by the lane when the ants reached the edge of
the rotating table”. I am not sure exactly what you mean by this. Does that come down to the
position of one of the end of the bridge at the moment the ants reach the border? If that’s the case
did you take the actual end of the odour bridge the ants arrived at or did you focus on one edge
(although it would seem a different one across condition)? In any case I think these data are
misleading because 1- It confounds the amount of rotation with whether the ant made a U-turn or
not and 2-some ants reached the side of the arena at locations far away from the odour bridge
itself, particularly in the low speed rotation condition, so that the current odour bridge position
seems a bit irrelevant.
Suggestion:
I would show two circular histograms per condition: the location at which the ants reach the
side of the circular arena 1- given the panorama (absolute coordinate ignoring the rotation) and 2-
given the odour (coordinate relative to the odour bridge, compensating for the amount of
rotation, this should lead to a bimodal distribution for some ant have display a U-turn and other
not). The first circular plot would show how odour affects the use of panorama (probably by
increasing the scatter around the nest direction); and the second circular plot would show how
the panorama affects the use of the odour (by displaying U-turn, and/or by increasing scatter too,
and to what extant? I believe plotting your data this way would be very revealing.
C) The division of your different experiments in subcategories seems a bit arbitrary (for instance,
why are exp1-1 and exp1-2 separated from exp2?). I just see 6 conditions (4 with circular area and
2 with bounded bridges). Separating the different experiments into different figures hinders the
comparison across conditions.
Suggestion:
I would suggest making a single figure with multiple panels. For instance, you could have your 6
conditions (6 columns),with each showing a similar set of matching panels (4 rows, see below).
9
This would greatly facilitate comparison, summarise the results, avoid redundancy in the
legends, and surely can be fitted within a single page.
As panels (rows) I would suggest:
1- Schemes of the experimental design as you already have drawn (condition 1,2,3 can show ‘no
rotation’ ‘quick rotation’ and ‘low rotation’ respectively).
2- Paths and density plots for the different categories of angular extant of the vision/odour
conflict (see suggestion A). Statistics such as sinuosity and average speed for each categories can
easily been displayed near the paths-plots.
3- The circular plots of arena exit location according to 1- vision, and 2-olfaction (see suggestion
B).
4- The circular plot of position of the bridge at the U-turn moment (as you already show for some
conditions). In this case, only condition 1 (no rotation) would show an empty plot as no ants
showed no U-turn. Number of ants that U-turned vs. didn’t U-turned can be display inside the
circular plot.
II) Remarks and suggestions about the manuscript.
Overall, I believe the pitch of the introduction and discussion is confusing. Some element
mentioned at length seem inappropriate (e.g., distinction between landmark and panorama) and
other topic are missing (e.g., multiple cue integration in ants during conflict situation). I would
recommend rewriting the intro and discussion following the suggestions below.
D) Mentioning cue integration. You seem to miss to mention the topic of ‘cue integration’ which
is absolutely related to your study. In the introduction, you should mention that ants are known
to rely on a navigational toolkit consisting of multiple strategies (Wehner 2008 Myrm news;
Wystrach et al., 2014 PRSB). And recent work have put some of these navigational strategies into
conflict and shown that ants do not switch ‘on’ and ‘off’ between these strategies, but integrate
them together (Collett 2012 cur. Biol.; Legge et al., 2014 JEB; Wystrach et al., 2014 JCPA). These
recent works have focused on the interaction between Path integration and visual panorama.
Here you investigate the interaction between visual panorama and odour trails, and crucially,
your set-up enable to vary the extent of the directional conflict in a continuous manner, without
interfering directly animal. This, at least to me, should be the pitch of your introduction. Also, the
discussion should relate to the topic of cue integration. You should mention what aspects of the
interaction you show between odour and vision differs from the integration between Path
integration and vision. And discuss in the light of your new results how synergy between vision
and odour emerges. This would be very interesting.
- Wehner, R. 2008. The desert ant's navigational toolkit: Procedural rather than positional
knowledge. Navigation. Journal of the Institute of Navigation, 55.
- Wystrach, A., Schwarz, S., Baniel, A. & Cheng, K. 2013. Backtracking behaviour in lost ants: an
additional strategy in their navigational toolkit. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological
Sciences, 280.
- Collett, M. 2012. How Navigational Guidance Systems Are Combined in a Desert Ant. Current
biology : CB, 22, 927-932.
- Legge, E. L., Wystrach, A., Spetch, M. L. & Cheng, K. 2014. Combining sky and earth: desert ants
(Melophorus bagoti) show weighted integration of celestial and terrestrial cues. The Journal of
experimental biology, 217, 4159-4166.
- Wystrach, A., Schwarz, S., Schultheiss, P., Baniel, A. & Cheng, K. 2014. Multiple sources of
celestial compass information in the central Australian desert ant Melophorus bagoti. Journal of
Comparative Physiology A, 1-11.
E) Sparing the Landmark or panorama debate. In the abstract, introduction and discussion, you
mention the now old debate of whether landmarks and panorama act as different or as a same
cue (see detail comment below). This debate is not related to your current question and
mentioning it only obscures your point (which is about odour/vision interaction). I would
recommend getting rid of the word ‘landmark’ throughout your text and simply stay solid and
safe by saying that ants are known to use information from the visual panorama. And indeed
10
evidence show that ants use such visual information in laboratory condition. The references you
cite are indeed supporting these points, and can be gathered behind such general claim. This is
enough to justify your present approach, and will leave you space to discuss matters more related
to your study (see D).
F) Rotation, Movie and optic flow. It is true that your set up impose a continuous rotation on the
ant visual system, but in no case this suggests that ants are using “information based on motion
parallax or optic flow (Page 7 L14)” or seeing a “Movie”. On the contrary, your results rather
suggests that ants are able to cancel this rotational optic flow so as to be enable to match the
visual panorama whether it rotates (Exp1-1) or not(Exp1-2). Rotational optic flow may be used to
help the ant compensate for the rotation and maintain a straight course in regards to the
panorama, as an optomotor response. You should mention these points in your discussion, and I
recommend changing the title for these reasons.
Detailed comments:
Title: I suggest changing the title (see F for a reason). Perhaps something like “Rotating
panoramic view: Interaction between visual and olfactory cues in ants” (See D).
Abstract
P1. L25: you should avoid mentioning “landmarks” or “skylight compass” (these are
subcategories of cues that does not concern nor affect your current work); but rather mention the
existence of the toolkit and then focus on the cues of interest in your study: information from
visual surroundings and odour trails.
P1. L30-31. The notion of directional conflict and cue combination should be mentioned.
P1. L40. “faster computational capacities than expected”. I am not aware of the existence of a
current estimation of how fast this is supposed to operate? If yes, please clarify. Why should it be
slow at the first place?
P1. L50 – P2. L10. Rather than bringing miscellaneous examples, you should quote reviews that
speak about the navigational toolkit (see D) and gather the multiple species onto same aspect of
the toolkit (for instance, using the visual panorama, path integration and systematic search are
strategies shared by ants and bees), you don’t need to go into the detail of potential differences
between species, apart from the fact that your ants do use odour trails, which raise a point of
interest in your particular study.
P2. L13-28. The work summarised in this paragraph (Wystrach et al., 2011 Front. Zool) is
misunderstood and inappropriate here. This paper shows that ants do NOT segregate between
landmark and distant panorama. They use panoramic views that encompass both at once. This
work should be used to support the fact that ants use visual information in general (see point E).
Method. It would be good to know whether or not the ant have exposed to the route between
feeder and nest before the tests started.
P.5 L29. “visual panorama” rather than perspective.
P.6 L19. Again, “visual panorama” rather than perspective.
Discussion.
The whole first paragraph of the discussion should be reconsidered (see E and D)
P6. L34. The work you mis-used earlier (Wystrach et al., 2011 Front. Zool) is instead supporting
perfectly the sentence you mention here “Researchers have also suggested that landmarks may
not be segregated from the panorama”.
P6. L46. What do you mean by ‘memory’ here? Please specify.
P6. L46. Indeed motor cues should be mentioned, notably the optomotor response and motor
routine memories. Kohler and Wehner 2005 is not an appropriate reference here, it should be
Lent et al., 2009 cur. Biol.
P7, L12. I don’t think your data support theories that insects use information based on motion
parallax of optic flow (see F).
P7, L20-22: “At a low degree of revolution the ants seemed to rely on the pheromones and
followed the trail in a typically manner for their return journey”. This seems inappropriate as
11
your figure shows that ants went off the pheromone trail during the second half of the journey
with low degree of revolution. The absence of significant difference in the number of U-turn vs.
non Uturn is misleading as it is clear that ants displayed more U-turns than in the no-rotation
condition. The panorama definitely plays a big role here. The way I suggested to present the data
(see point A, notably the circular plot of the ants’ exit locations relatively to the panorama) should
hopefully reveal what is going on in this condition.
P7. L45. I would remove the last sentence (see F) and instead pitch your discussion on the
interaction between odour trails and vision (see end of D).
I hope my review has been helpful, and I am looking forward to see your work publish, I
understand my recommendations are heavy, but I hope that their incorporation will help
clarifying your excellent data.
Antoine Wystrach
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140441)
17-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Gunji:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140441 entitled "Rotating panoramic view:
Can garden ants see a ‘movie’?" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 14-Sep-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150426)
See Appendix A.
12
label_version_2
RSOS-150426.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Tom Collett)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This paper is much improved and my comments are mostly presentational and linguistic. As
someone who does not find language learning easy, I do appreciate how hard it is to go from
Japanese to English.
1st page of paper is page 39! of the PDF
p. 39, l. 17-19. Rotational and translational speeds can't really be equivalent suggest that instead
you write 'The rotational speed of the table (3 rpm) was set so that the table would rotate through
about 90 degs by the time that an ant had walked from the start to the centre of the table.'
p. 39, l. 22-23. I found this sentence obscure. Is it needed?
p. 40, l. 17. Replace 'using' by 'on'?
p. 40. Lines 18-23 are hard to follow. Suggest something like: 'The ants' path between nest and
feeder crossed a circular table on which a straight pheromone trail had been laid. Once an ant left
the feeder and started to follow the trail, the table was made to rotate so that visual cues
indicating the direction of the nest came into increasing conflict with the orientation of the trail.
Ants tended to stick to the pheromone trail despite the rotation and they corrected their direction
by making U-turns on the trail. We used several variants of this methodology to investigate how
the ant is guided by these two cues on its trip back to the nest.'
p. 40, l. 30. It would help to say whether or not the colony had any opportunity to learn the
location of the nest relative to room cues before the experiment began.
p. 40, l. 35 'the turntable'
p. 40, l. 35-36 Instead of 'which could yield.. panorama' suggest 'giving the ants a changing view
of the visual panorama'
13
p. 41, l.2 'and to access the'
p. 41, l.3 'During this period at least 15 ants contributed to a pheromone trail which lasted about
one hour. To ensure ants encountered a good trail, a new pheromone coated sheet was used for
each 30 min experiment.'
p. 41, l. 19. In principle, all ants could learn the panorama during the outward trip.
p. 41 l. 23-24. Sentence 'In Exp 1.1......... 4.2' is not clear
p.4l. 1 32-33. Sentence 'Ants that ...eliminated'. This sentence repeats p. 41 l. 17-18 and could be
eliminated.
p. 42, l. 5-6. See above p. 39, l7-19. Suggest that you replace 'which is... journey' by something like:
'This rotational speed meant that the ant was about half way across the turn-table by the time the
trail had rotated through 90 deg. We also observed what the ants did when the turn-table was
stationary.'
p. 42, l 13-19. suggest it can all be replaced by: 'We investigated the ants' behaviour when the
speed of rotation was sufficiently slow (1 rpm) for the ants to reach the nest side without making
a U-turn.'
p. 42, l. 23 suggest: 'The ants could enter or leave the foraging lane'
p. 43, l. 5-9 Fig 9 looks like a methods figure and might be better as Fig. 2. Suggest to simplify 'To
analyse the endpoint etc ' 'We defined the end point of an ant's trajectory on the turn-table by two
angles: first, the angle between the line from the end point to the centre of the turn-table and the
nest feeder axis (Fig. 2A) and second the angle between this line and the pheromone (Fig. 2B). We
also noted the direction of a foraging lane when an ant makes a U-turn after travelling at least one
fourth of the lane. Phi denotes the mean of the distribution of these three kinds of angles for an
experiment and r is the scatter of the distribution.'
p. 43, line 19 'path length' rather than stream length. The divisor in Fig 9c is the path length which
seems to be inconsistent with what you write here?
p. 43 lines 23 to 28. Might be simpler and avoid repetition to make these points when describing
the results of the first experiment and then say the remaining experiments are presented in a
similar way.
p. 43 line 31-32. 'Fig 3B shows the same for EXP 1-2 when the turntable was kept stationary'
p. 43 line 36. Suggest that you finish with describing Fig 2B and the rotating table before
mentioning what happens with the stationary table
p 44, l. 2-11. be better not to have a new paragraph here 'The density distributions of the ants'
positions during each third of the raw trajectories are plotted in the bottom row of Fig 2B and
make the same point, as does Fig. 11, in which the trajectories are divided into two halves
according to their duration. In contrast, the corresponding plots of the ants' paths when the table
was stationary (Fig. 3B, Fig. 11) show that the ants walked from the feeder end to the nest end of
the pheromone lane with no U-turns'
p. 44 line 15 'and they differed significantly'. Say from what they differed significantly. You've
already said the distribution is not random.
14
p. 44, l. 16. This would be clearer if you added to Figs 2A and 3A the labels '180 deg' to the nest
side of the panel and '0 deg' to the right side. Should it be Fig 3C and not 2C since you are talking
about expt 1.2?
p. 44, l. 21- 22 suggest you say 'more often on the rotating table than on the stationary table. In Fig
2D the occurrence of U-turns is plotted relative to the direction of the pheromone lane. This rose
diagram indicates that ants tended to make U-turns when the pheromone lane was perpendicular
to the feeder nest direction (phi =). (Fig 2D ). ' I don't think that you need the next sentence in
which you describe the rose diagram.
p. 45, l. 2-12 'end point angles relative to the panorama are broadly distributed towards the nest
side (phi= 155....), while the end point angles of the pheromone lane are very roughly
perpendicular to the feeder-nest axis (phi = 118), differing significantly from the distributions of
Expts 1.1 and 1.2. Very few U turns were made (Fig 4D) and all three occurred when the
pheromone lane had rotated through more than 90 degs. It can be seen in Fig 2B that some ants
left the pheromone trail and approached the nest (Fig. 8). These results show that ants can
respond to visual cues and ignore the pheromone trail when the panorama moves slowly.'
p. 45, l. l4-17. First and second sentences say almost the same thing and the 2nd is simpler. I
suggest that you delete the first sentence and start. 'In EXP 3 the turntable rotated at 3 rpm within
a uniform white drum (Fig. 5a)...........'
p. 45, l. 19 replace by 'gradually moved across the whole table following the pheromone trail. The
rose....'
p. 45, l. 20 suggest replace by 'the endpoint angles relative to the panorama are distributed
broadly on the feeder side (phi =.......).
p. 45, l. 22-33 suggest change to 'endpoint angles relative to the pheromone trail are distributed
tightly on the nest side (phi=..........).
p. 45 l. 24. suggest replace by 'U-turns were infrequent (in 9 out of 29 paths) suggesting that U-
turns do not occur without a visual scene that rotates relative to the pheromone trail (Movie ).'
Expt 4. Might be simpler for a reader if you describe first the results with a coated bridge and
then separately the results with an uncoated bridge. The end with the conclusion that you reach
from the comparison.
p. 46, l. 29. suggest change to 'maze-like trails, ants follow foraging routes and successfully return
to their nest [24,25]
p. 46, l. 35. As mentioned before ants can learn return routes on outward trips ref [5]. Can you be
sure there was no memory involved? p 46 lines 12-21 - prior knowledge sounds like a memory
effect.
p 46, l. 36- p 47 line 4. I find this paragraph hard to understand What do you mean by the motor
input effect? And I'm not sure that the optomotor reflex is cancelled. When the table rotates
clockwise in a stationary panorama the trajectories tend to be pushed to the side of the
pheromone trail that is in the direction of visual image motion. It is as though they are trying to
express an optomotor response within the constraints of the pheromone lane. When the white
cylinder rotates with the table, the ants paths are distributed more equally over the lane.
p. 47, l. 22-25. I'm not sure about the argument in this paragraph - you could just delete it. It
seems to me that in Exp 3 there are essentially no familiar visual cues for the ants to use and all
they have for guidance is the pheromone lane which they follow. Had you used the a photo of the
real visual panorama fixed to the table but oriented 180 degs from the natural case, the ants
would probably have either remained still or made a U-turn early on.
15
p. 47, l. 28 'effect' rather than 'affect'
p. 47, l. 32 'did not' rather than 'could not'
p. 48, l. 5-9 Talking about the right and left sides of a rotating disk leads to some confusion. Better
say something like: 'ants walked from the feeder end of the lane......from the centre back to the
feeder end of the lane which had now rotated to face the nest.' In control experiments, when the
turntable was stationary or moved slowly relative to the visual surroundings, ants tended to walk
from the feeder end of the pheromone lane all the way to the other end.'
Tom Collett
University of Sussex
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Miguel Rodriguez-Girones)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It depends on how much detail the authors must provide. They give a lot of figures, but I do not
see that the actual data (in tables) are available anywhere.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The manuscript presents an interesting set of experiments exploring how ants use visual cues and
pheromone trails for navigation. The results are new and informative, and presented in a
coherent fashion. The paper suffers from two drawbacks. First, and mainly, the set of experiments
presented is somewhat odd and “incomplete”. For instance, the only experiment in which the
ants do not have a pheromone trail is experiment 4.2, and in this experiment the ants are forced to
walk on a rotating bridge and therefore cannot choose to walk on a straight line back to the nest.
We can only wonder what the ants would have done on a turntable (rotating or not) without
pheromone trail. But these important controls are missing. One of the original reviewers made
this point when the manuscript was first submitted, but the authors (understandably) do not feel
inclined to do more experiments, so the data will have to stay as it is.
The second drawback of the manuscript is more easily addressed, as it has to do with clarity.
While, overall, the results are presented in a clear and consistent manner, the paper is at times
hard to follow. The comments below may hopefully help make the paper easier to follow. Page
numbers refer to the pdf file that I have downloaded. The title page is page 39.
16
Page 43, line 1. I had to struggle for quite a while before I understood what reference frame the
authors had used to describe trajectories. This isn’t explained in the methods, and the only
explanation we get, in the legend to figure 2, is that “The trajectories are shown on the disk as
though the disk had not rotated.” The method section should explain what the trajectories
represent. I suggest saying something like: “in figures 2-9 and 11, trajectories are given relative to
the rotating disk, so that the right-hand-side of the circle represents the region near the feeder end
of the foraging lane.”
Page 43, lines 6-8: rather than referring to “the angle given by the panorama” or “the angle given
by the pheromone”, it would be clearer if the authors wrote about “the angle relative to the
feeder-nest axis” and “the angle relative to the rotating pheromone trail”, specifying that angles
are measured clockwise, with 0º corresponding to the feeder side.
Page 43, lines 8-10: the authors refer to an orientation vector and a mean orientation vector. One
expects the mean orientation vector to be the average value of the orientation vector, but they are
not related: the orientation vector refers to the point where ants leave the turntable, the mean
orientation vector refers to the point where they turn around. This is confusing. Please give
different names to each vector and keep in mind that, for each type, you have individual vectors
and mean vectors. Make sure that the angle phi and length r refer always to the U-turn vector – I
suspect that, in the results sections, some of your phi and r values may refer to the exit vector (but
I haven’t checked it).
Pg. 43, line 13: what do you mean with “starting side relative to the stage”? Is this the “feeder end
of the foraging lane”?
Pg. 43, line 16: deviation from what?
Pg. 43, line 17: valuables -> variables
Pg. 43, line 17: condition type -> experimental condition? Treatment?
Pg. 43, lines 19-20: the definition of sinuosity here does not agree with the one of figure 1. Make
sure that you use the same definition, that you explain all the terms (stream length and lane-axial
length) and that you explain what is the “meaning” of sinuosity. Why is sinuosity important?
What does it indicate?
Pg. 43, lines 24-25 (and elsewhere throughout the paper): referring to the density distribution
against the angle given by the panorama/pheromone lane is confusing. Use the names suggested
above (lines 6-8) or something like that.
Pg. 43, line 26: it would be useful if you explained from this point that figure 11 essentially
summarises figures 2b-7b, and that the only difference is that, in figure 11, you code trajectories
in two colours (first half vs. second half), while in figures 2-7 they are coded in three colours, each
colour corresponding to one angle of the foraging lane relative to the nest-feeder axis.
Pg. 44, second paragraph: you write about figure 2 as if it had data from experiment 1.2. Specify
that you are comparing figures 2 and 3.
Pg. 44, lines 30-31: it is not true that ants NEVER left the pheromone trail.
Pg. 45, lines 2-3: here and in several other places, you claim that “the end point angles given by
the panorama in EXP 2 tend to be randomly distributed” and support this claim with a p < 0.05. I
always thought that p < 0.05 implied lack of randomness. What am I missing?
17
Pg. 45, lines 3-4: “the end point angles given by the pheromone lane are distributed at 90º” – but
in the figure what I see is a sharp peak at 180º. Am I looking to the wrong figure, or am I not
understanding the figures? If I am missing something, other readers might get confused as well.
Please clarify.
Pg. 45, line 35: “(Fig and ended…” probably means (Fig X) and ended…
Pg. 46, lines 5-6: how many ants turned around? (Data missing in figure.) Fig. 7d suggests that
there were only 5 U turns, while the histogram in Fig. 7c suggests that at least 3/4 of the ants
ended up on the feeder side of the bridge. How could so many ants end up on the “feeder side”
of the bridge without turning around?
Pg. 47, lines 5-6: “The pheromone trail has no polarity, therefore EXP 1-1 never showed the
conflict between the pheromone trail and the visual cues…” I know that this sentence was
included in response to a comment from a reviewer of the original version… Still, I don’t agree.
The fact that the trail has no polarity does not imply that there is no conflict between the
pheromone trail and visual cues. The trail indicates a travel direction (without specifying in
which way the direction must be travelled). If this direction does not lead to the goal, as specified
by the visual cues, no matter in which sense we travel, then we are in trouble and there is a
conflict between the trail and the visual cues. This is why some ants left the trail, in the slow
rotation experiment: because it was the only way to reach the nest.
Pg. 47, lines 7-9: “The ants followed the pheromone trail and walked straight because the prior
visual cues (i.e. visual cues when the turntable stopped) showed the nest in front of the ant.” In
Exp 1-1, this statement is only correct for a very short time. As soon as the table rotates, the nest
moves from the front to the side of the ant. Ants turn around, roughly, when the nest is slightly
behind them.
Pg. 47, lines 13-15: “This suggests that there could be a threshold value for the angle between the
lane and the feeder-nest axis below which the ant can identify the conflict between the prior
knowledge and the visual cues.” A threshold angle or a threshold distance? The existence of a
threshold angle is demonstrated in experiment 1-1: when the bearing t the nest is greater than 90º
(nest slightly behind the ant), ants turn around. In this experiment, it seems that if the distance to
the nest is close enough, the ants recognise it and go straight to the entrance, leaving the trail.
Miguel A. Rodríguez-Gironés
Estación Experimental de Zonas Áridas
Almería, Spain
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150426)
10-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Gunji,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Rotating panoramic view: Interaction between visual
and olfactory cues in ants") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 03-Dec-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
18
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to each of the comments, and the adjustments you have
made. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as
possible in your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150426
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
19
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150426)
See Appendix B.
label_version_3
RSOS-150426.R2 (Revision)
label_author_6
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Tom Collett)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Sufficient data are given in the figs. It is quite clear how the experiments were done and they are
easily replicable.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
20
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_6
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
I think that it is much clearer now. It makes a very interesting paper.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150426.R1)
24-Dec-2015
Dear Dr Gunji,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Rotating panoramic view: Interaction
between visual and olfactory cues in ants" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Matthew Allinson
matthew.allinson@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
To Reviewer 1:
We acknowledge Professor Tim Collet’s, the reviewer’s detailed comments, and completely
accepts your points such that our results show that ants basically follow the olfactory
information in using visual cues. We also accept that “conflict between pheromone and visual
cues” is misleading and removed or replaced it by other expression. In following your and
other reviewer’s comments we arranged figures so as to compare results in various
experimental conditions with each other. In this revision we accept all reviewer’s comments
and replaced misleading and indefinite expressions by new definite ones.
On main points:
(1) The reviewer said, “This ingenious sequence of experiments investigates how
directional cues afforded by a visual panorama combine with olfactory cues from a
pheromone trail to guide ants towards their nest”, and “The technique devised is to rotate
a segment of a pheromone trail relative to the stationary panorama while ants are walking
along the trail towards their nest. By matching the speed of rotation (3 revs/min) to the
ants’ walking speed, the pheromone trail begins oriented along the food-nest axis and
becomes oriented perpendicularly to that axis when the ant is roughly halfway along the
segment. The ants make a U-turn at about this point and so travel in a nest-ward direction
without leaving the trail.”
<U+F0E8> So as to manifest the main results in our paper, NOT switching from the one mode of
stimulus to the other mode BUT integrating information of different mode, we clearly
describe these results in ABSTRACT, as the reviewer said.
(P1 L15-): We positioned a garden ant Lasius niger on a rotating table,
whereon a segment of a pheromone trail relative to the stationary panorama
was rotated while the ant walked along the trail towards its nest. The speed
of rotation was equivalent to the ant’s walking speed, and although the
pheromone trail was initially oriented along the food-nest axis, it became
oriented perpendicular to that axis when the ant was roughly halfway along
the segment. The ant completed a U-turn at about this point and so travelled
in a nest-ward direction without leaving the trail.
(2) The reviewer said, “These results suggest to me that the ants like to stick to the
pheromone trail and use visual input to determine their direction of travel along the trail.
i.e. Throughout the trail the ants’ direction is determined by the panorama, since the trail
itself has no polarity. In the Discussion of the paper a different hypothesis is suggested
but arguments in its favour are not presented. If I have understood it, the hypothesis
given (page 5 lines 22-28) is that ants relied on the trail for directional cues in the first
half of their travel and on the panorama in the second half”.
<U+F0E8> We completely accept the reviewer’s point, and removed our “old” hypothesis such that
relied on the trail for directional cues in the first half of their travel and on the panorama
in the second half”, and remove the misleading statement such as conflict between visual
and odor information. Especially we added the expression of on polarity in pheromone.
These are, for example written in;
(P9L5-L11) The pheromone trail has no polarity, therefore EXP 1-1 never
showed the conflict between the pheromone trail and the visual cues, but did
show the conflict between prior knowledge on homing direction and present
visual cues. The ants followed the pheromone trail and walked straight
because the prior visual cues (i.e. visual cues when the turntable stopped)
showed the nest in front of the ant. Our experiments show that the ants
followed the pheromone trail with the help of visual cues. The ants never left
the pheromone lane whether the turntable rotated at 3 r/min or not; therefore,
it is clear that the ants followed the pheromone trail (Figs. 2, 3 and 5).
Most of discussion part is replaced by the statements following this reviewer’s point.
(3) The reviewer said, “A good series of control experiments indicates that the ants’
seemingly purposeful U-turn is indeed mediated by visual information and that the
response requires a pheromone trail”
<U+F0E8> We completely agree with the reviewer’s comments, and then the relationship between
visual and pheromone information suggested from the control experiments is written as
follows.
(P9L26-) The pheromone lane was set in the turntable, therefore the ants
could choose to walk either on the pheromone trail or not. We estimated
whether the choice of the pheromone tail might affect the use of visual cues
or not (EXP 4-1, Fig. 6). The results show that there was no affect. Even when
the pheromone bridge was rotated at 3 r/min, the ants completed a U-turn at
90°. We also estimated whether changing visual cues seen from the foraging
bridge could affect the ants’ walking without the pheromone trail (EXP 4-2, Fig.
7). In this experiment, few ants completed U-turns, i.e. without odour the ants
could not complete a U-turn and appeared confused by the rotation. This
result indicates that a pheromone trail provides a scaffold to the ants for
efficient and stable completion of complex tasks and is consistent with studies
that suggest a synergy between pheromone trails and route memory [24]. This
synergy increases foraging efficiency in ants [15]. It suggests that the
pheromone trail could yield a necessary condition to perceive changing visual
cues.
(4) The reviewer said, “Nonetheless, an additional control would make for a more complete
story. The authors assume that the ants turn when their direction of travel no longer brings
them closer to the nest as indicated by the positional visual information provided by the
panorama”.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before, our “old” hypothesis which is based on switching from pheromone
to visual cues is abandoned, but the assumption that the ants turn when their direction
of travel no longer brings them closer to the nest as indicated by the positional visual
information provided by the panorama still remains. This part was rewritten as a
hypothesis supported by results of EXP 2 (slow rotation) by the following:
(P9L12-) If the lane rotated very slowly at 1 r/min, some ants left the
pheromone trail and directly approached the nest independent of the
pheromone trail (Figs. 4 and 8). This suggests that there could be a threshold
value for the angle between the lane and the feeder-nest axis below which
the ant can identify the conflict between the prior knowledge and the visual
cues. In addition, the threshold might be dependent on the rate of changing
visual cues, which was controlled by the rotation velocity of the turntable in
our experiment. Thus, the ants could not identify the conflict until the angle
between the lane and the feeder-nest axis reached a particular threshold of
90° (maximum) when the turntable rotated 3 r/min. In contrast, the ants could
identify the conflict even if the angle was very small and directly approached
the nest when the turntable rotated very slowly at 1 r/min.
(5) The reviewer added, “An alternative possibility is that the U-turns are generated solely
by the retinal image motion produced by rotating the pheromone trail within stationary
surroundings, irrespective of the details of the pattern. I.e. the ants are compensating for
the imposed directional change. It could be argued that this possibility is implausible
because U-turns are mostly generated when the trail is perpendicular to the feeder-nest
axis. But it is feasible that the motion input is integrated with a U-turn generated when
the integrated value reaches some threshold. The reduced number of U turns found in
Expt 2 also hints at this possibility. A simple way to test this 'image motion compensation'
suggestion is to place the rotating disk and pheromone lane within a cylinder, but instead
of a uniform white inner wall, decorate the wall with a homogenous pattern that provides
motion but not positional information (e.g. 30deg wide alternating black and white
vertical stripes). Whatever the outcome of this control, the findings of the paper would
still be valuable.”
<U+F0E8> We accept the possibility of this hypothesis. This idea is partly implemented by our new
hypothesis mentioned in (4) of which the conflict between the visual cues and the
pheromone lane is estimated under a particular threshold. Although we accept the
suggested experiment is hopeful to evaluate the hypothesis, it will be a future work which
is not directly relevant for our findings. Thus we here did not conduct suggested
experiment.
(6) The review said, “It is important to state whether these experiments were performed on
ants on their first foraging trip or whether they had prior experience of foraging on the
turn table and so are familiar with the visual panorama or whether they might have gained
visual experience in other ways before the experiments began”.
<U+F0E8> We also understand the importance of this point, and we described that all ants employed
to the experiments were naïve by the following:
(P3L17) For the experiments, the ants were used one at a time for each trial.
After a trial, the ants were eliminated; hence, the ants were naive to the
turntable and to the visual panorama seen from the rotated turntable in all
experiments. Some ants, however, experienced visual panorama seen from
non-rotated lane connecting the feeder and the foraging box because they
could be employed to the preparation for the pheromone coated lane.
(7) Finally the reviewer said, “My major problem with the presentation of the paper is that the
account is not easy to follow on first reading”.
<U+F0E8> Since the reviewer 2 also mentioned that the presentation of the paper should be revised
so as to compare all results of various experimental conditions, we revised the design of
and arrangements of all figures corresponding to various experimental conditions. It is
firstly mentioned in the first paragraph of the RESULT section:
(P5L23) To compare the results, we present four components in each figure:
(a) experimental setup, (b) arrangement of the trajectories on the lane and/or
the turntable, (c) density distribution against the angle given by the panorama
and against the angle given by the pheromone lane and (d) the turning point
angle distribution for each experiment (Figs. 2–7). Fig. 11 shows ant
trajectories and the density distribution of ants for each experiment. In each
trial, a trajectory was divided into two parts, the first half (blue) and the second
half (red), with respect to the time.
On detailed points:
(1) Page 1 lines The abstract is written assuming that the use of directional information
changes along the trail. Can it be written more factually without implying that hypothesis?
<U+F0E8> Because we replaced abstract by following the reviewer’s comments, there is no
statements containing a particular hypothesis. Our new abstract is
Abstract
Insects navigate using various types of information, such as skylight
compasses, path integration, view-dependent recognition methods and
landmarks. The question arises, how do directional cues afforded by a visual
panorama combine with olfactory cues from a pheromone trail to guide ants
towards their nest. We positioned a garden ant Lasius niger on a rotating table,
whereon a segment of a pheromone trail relative to the stationary panorama
was rotated while the ant walked along the trail towards its nest. The speed
of rotation was equivalent to the ant’s walking speed, and although the
pheromone trail was initially oriented along the food-nest axis, it became
oriented perpendicular to that axis when the ant was roughly halfway along
the segment. The ant completed a U-turn at about this point and so travelled
in a nest-ward direction without leaving the trail. These results suggest that
the ants persist on the pheromone trail and use visual input to determine their
direction of travel along the trail. Other experiments seem to show that
olfactory information affords a kind of condition under which ants use visual
information.
(2) Page 1 Line 37: A summary sentence to encapsulate the results might be: ‘our results
suggest that ants can use a visual panorama to determine in which direction to travel along
a pheromone trail.’ I think that the last two sentences go beyond what the data show.
<U+F0E8> We agree the reviewer’s comments and we replaced the last two sentences by the
following:
(P1L21-)These results suggest that the ants persist on the pheromone trail
and use visual input to determine their direction of travel along the trail. Other
experiments seem to show that olfactory information affords a kind of
condition under which ants use visual information.
(3) Page 1 Line 58 Lasius rather than Lusius
<U+F0E8> We corrected this typo.
(3) Page 2 Line 14 when (rather then where) different cues conflict
<U+F0E8> We replaced when by where.
(4) Page 2 Lines 23 to 28. The meaning of the sentence beginning ‘Although…’ is unclear to
me.
<U+F0E8> We removed the sentences pointed out, and we replaced it by the following;
Recent works have focused on the interaction between path integration and
the visual panorama and have shown that when they are put into conflict,
ants integrate these strategies together rather than switching either one ‘on’
or ‘off’ [21-23].
(5) Page 2 Lines 29 to 40. This paragraph is too compressed for easy understanding. I only
followed it after on a second reading of the paper. Expand it to state the question you wish
<U+F0E8> We removed this part, and the question we wish is replaced by the following:
(P2L16-) Here we investigate the interaction between the visual panorama
and odour trails. We conducted a rotating panorama experiment using garden
ants (Lasius niger). A rotating pheromone trail guided the homing ants back
to a feeder; thus, the ants needed to complete a U-turn to return to their nest.
The experiment involved a conflict between present and prior visual
information guided by trail pheromones, and the degree of inconsistency
between the two types of information was continuously increased. Therefore,
the rotating panorama construction was useful for precisely estimating an
ant’s ability to adapt to the complexity of its environment where different cues
guide the ant in different directions.
(6) Page 2 Line 56 explain how the pheromone was obtained and how the plate was coated
and how long-lived the pheromone trail is.
<U+F0E8> How the pheromone was obtained and how the plate was coated is described as the
following:
(P3L1-) To obtain a pheromone sheet, a foraging box was connected to a lane
covered with an acid free paper. The colony was allowed to explore the lane and
access to the turntable on a platform at the end of the lane for 20 min. It is
ensured that more than 15 ants laid down trail pheromone on the sheet and they
made a pheromone trail. Since the effect of the pheromone trail lasted in one
hour, one pheromone coated sheet was used for the experiment in thirty minutes.
(7) Page 2 line 58 since the white paper was a control, it would be easier for a reader if you
start by describing the rotating plate in a stationary room as a means of changing the
orientation of the pheromone trail relative to visual cues.
<U+F0E8> Before describing the white paper experiment we described what is the main experiment
as the following:
(P2L35) In the main experiment turntable was rotated in a stationary room
which could yield ants changing visual panorama.
(8) Page 3 line 14. Does this mean that the camera was pointing downwards to record a plan
view of the rotating disk.
<U+F0E8> Yes. Thus we added such statements.
(P3L15) The camera was pointing downwards to record a plan view of the
rotating disk.
(9) Page 3 lines 33 to 34. Expand e.g. ‘As the turntable rotates, the direction of the
pheromone trail diverges increasingly from the food-nest axis. If ants are to reach the
nest without leaving the trail, they must at some point make a U-turn and retrace their
steps on the trail and so move towards the visually defined position of the nest.
Alternatively, ants could abandon the trail and aim continuously at the visually defined
nest position. In the first experiment the speed of rotation was 3 revolutions per minute.
Typically, it took ants 10 seconds to walk across the disk.
<U+F0E8> We expand the statement by the following:
(P3L36-) As the turntable rotates, the direction of the pheromone trail diverges
increasingly from the food-nest axis. If ants are to reach the nest without leaving
the trail, they must at some point make a U-turn and retrace their steps on the
trail and so move towards the visually defined position of the nest. Alternatively,
ants could abandon the trail and aim continuously at the visually defined nest
position (Figs. 1 and 2a). The rotation speed was 3 revolutions/min (r/min)
(EXP 1-1), which is equivalent to the speed of a walking ant. In approximately
10 seconds, an ant walks from one end to the other end on the lane if it goes
straight and the turntable rotates 180°. That is why the ant going straight on
the lane returns to the starting point on the inbound journey. We also observed
ant behaviour on the non-rotating table (Figs. 1 and 3a), which yielded data
for the control experiment (EXP 1-2). The foraging lane was pheromone-
coated.
(10) Page 3 Line 45.
Suggestion: 'In this experiment the speed of rotation of the disk was reduced to 1
revolution per minute so that the ants could reach the edge before the disk had rotated
through 90 degrees. Thus, at this rotational speed ants and had no need to make a U-
turn.'
<U+F0E8> We utilized suggested statements by the following:
(P4L13) We investigated the ants’ behaviour on a low-speed rotating table, where
the ants were not required to change direction to reach to the nest side (Figs. 1
and 4a). In this experiment the speed of rotation of the disk was reduced to 1
revolution per minute so that the ants could reach the edge before the disk had
rotated through 90 degrees. Thus, at this rotational speed ants and had no need
to make a U-turn. The aim was to determine whether the behaviours in EXP 1
were affected by the rotation. The rotation speed was 1 r/min, and the ants
reached the other edge within a quarter of a rotation if they went straight. The
foraging lane was pheromone-coated.
(11) Page 4 lines 10 to 14. 'To test the ants' behaviour when there was no pheromone
trail, we used a rotating 'bridge' instead of a rotating disk. The width of the bridge (3cm)
was the same as the lane. In one experiment the bridge was coated with pheromone and
in a second experiment the bridge was not treated. Rotational speed was 3 revolutions
per min, as in experiment 1.'
<U+F0E8> We replaced previous statements by what the reviewer mentioned:
(P4L29) To test the ants' behaviour when there was no pheromone trail, we used
a rotating 'bridge' instead of a rotating disk. The width of the bridge (3cm) was the
same as the lane. In one experiment the bridge was coated with pheromone (EXP
4-1) as shown in Figs. 1 and 6a, and in a second experiment the bridge was not
treated (EXP 4-2) as shown in Figs. 1 and 7a. Rotational speed was 3 revolutions
per min, as in EXP 1-1.
(12) Page 4 line 19-20 'All the foraging trajectories of one treatment were collected and
their density along the trail is shown with a colour code going from red (dense) through
yellow to white (least dense)'
<U+F0E8> We replaced previous statements by what the reviewer mentioned.
(13) Page 4 line 44. Would help to refer to Fig 1a at this point.
<U+F0E8> These statements were put in P3L22-L33 (Material and Method part) and we refer to Fig.
1.
(14) Page 4 lines 52 and 53. Might be better to put these lines in the description of Expt.
1. In your account start by orienting the reader by giving a general description.
e.g. ‘In this experiment the rotational speed of the disk (3 r/min) was chosen so that the
ants would reach the nest if they made a U-turn about halfway along the lane. The ants
trajectory on the disk is shown in Fig 1b when the disk rotated (left) and when it was
stationary (right).’
<U+F0E8> As mentioned in (13), we expanded it and put in P3L22-L33 (Material and Method part)
by the following:
(P4L22-) All experiments were set up as follows (Fig. 1). A turntable and an
ascending slope were connected with a foraging lane on a turntable. The
foraging lane led to the feeder. In EXP 1-1, 1-2, 2 and 3 and a foraging lane
but no turntable in EXP 4-1 and 4-2. The foraging lane was located on a
turntable. The turntable was covered with a sheet of acid-free paper, which
was frequently replaced with a new sheet. The foraging lane was deposited
with trail pheromone in some experiments but not in others. Soon after an ant
entered the foraging lane, the ascending slope was detached from the
turntable to prevent other ants from entering the lane. During the outbound
journey, the turntable was not rotated. Thus, an ant could reach the glucose
solution on the food plate by going straight along the foraging lane. The
turntable began rotating when the ant re-entered the foraging lane after
feeding. The trial was considered complete when the ant reached the edge of
the turntable (or foraging lane). Ants that experienced rotation of the turntable
or bridge were eliminated.
(15) Since U-turns are defined in a restricted way (page 4 lines 29 to 32) and other kinds
of turns presumably also occur it would be helpful to give a figure in the main text rather
than the supplement showing examples of typical trajectories of all the experiments and
to be given information about the speed of walking; whether it is the same between
experiments and whether and how it changes as ants walk along the trail.
<U+F0E8> We followed the reviewer’s suggestion and put typical trajectories of all experiments in
figure in the text (Fig. 8). Averages of speed of walking for all experiments are put in
Figures 2b-7b.
(16) Page 5 lines 8-13. Suggestion: 'On a rotating disk, the ants first ran along the
pheromone lane towards the centre of the disk and then made a U-turn so that, relative
to the rotating disk, they returned to the starting point. But relative to the stationary room,
their U-shaped path brought the ants to the region of the nest. When the disk was
stationary the ants traversed the whole length of the pheromone trail to reach the nest.'
<U+F0E8> Since all figures were rearranged and replaced, explanations for figures were little bit
modified, and after that we put suggested statements by the following:
(P5L31-) Fig. 2b shows the ants’ trajectories on the lane that rotated (EXP.1-
1). Fig. 3b shows the case on the lane that did not rotate (EXP.1-2). Each
trajectory of the first 60° rotation is shown in red, the second 60° rotation is in
violet and the third 60° rotation is in blue (Fig. 2b, top row). On a rotating disk,
the ants first ran along the pheromone lane towards the centre of the disk and
then made a U-turn so that, relative to the rotating disk, they returned to the
starting point. But relative to the stationary room, their U-shaped path brought the
ants to the region of the nest. When the disk was stationary the ants traversed
the whole length of the pheromone trail to reach the nest.
(17) Page 5 line 24. 'shows the distribution of U turns plotted against the orientation of the
pheromone lane. 0 and 180 degs indicates that the lane is parallel to the food-nest axis and
90 degs indicates that the lane is perpendicular to that axis.'
<U+F0E8> We put suggested statements in P5L20 by the following:
(P6L22-) The rose diagram in Fig. 2d shows the distribution of U turns plotted
against the orientation of the pheromone lane. 0 and 180 degs indicates that the
lane is parallel to the food-nest axis and 90 degs indicates that the lane is
perpendicular to that axis. It shows that the U turns in EXP 1-1 were distributed
at approximately 90° (angle given by the panorama) and were not randomly
distributed (f = 81.3°, r = 0.867, p < 0.0001).
(17) Page 5 lines 28-29. The result could just mean that the ant changes direction on the
lane so that its heading is more towards the nest than the food.
<U+F0E8> We replaced the statement as follows:
(P6L29) These results show that the ants changed their direction depending
on the panoramic views, whereas they never left the pheromone lane.
(Movies ESM1 and ESM2).
(18) Page 5 line 32. Perhaps be simpler to follow if you to start with the reason for this control
experiment. E.g. ‘What happens if the pheromone lane rotates so slowly (1 r/min) that the
ants can reach the nest region without making a U-turn?
<U+F0E8> We put this statement in the top of Experiment 2 section in Results.
(19) Page 5 line 39. Since there are almost no U-turns when the disk is stationary (Fig 1) or
when it rotates within a white drum, it does not seem correct to state that U-turn behaviour is
unaffected by the slow rotation. It would be useful to include a plot, as in Fig 1e, to show the
angle of the pheromone lane at which each U-turn occurs.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, and replaced the statement by the following:
(P7L9-) As shown in Fig. 8, some ants left the pheromone lane and directly
approaches the nest soon after they noticed where the nest is. These results
show that ants could use changing visual cues even if the visual cues are
changed very slowly (Movie ESM3).
(20) Page 5 line 45. It would help to describe this experiment in a more reader friendly way.
E.g.: ‘In this experiment the disk was rotated at 3 r/min within a uniform white drum so that
the rotation would not generate any visual input. Without visual input, the number of U-turns
was very low (Fig 3d) and most ants walked the complete length of the pheromone trail (Fig
3b). Consequently, their position at the end of the trail was closer to the feeder than to the
nest (Fig 3c).’
<U+F0E8> We put suggested statements in the texts and expanded by the following:
(P7L14-) In EXP 3, the turntable was rotating at the same speed as in EXP 1-
1, but it was attached and covered by the white wall that had no skyline cue
(Fig. 5a). In this experiment the disk was rotated at 3 r/min within a uniform white
drum so that the rotation would not generate any visual input. The trajectories of
each 60° rotation are shown in Fig. 5b, and the first and the second half of the
trajectories are shown in Fig. 11 (EXP 3). Both figures show that the ants
gradually moved from the right to the left (i.e. from the feeder to the nest). The
rose diagram in Fig. 5c shows that the end point angles given by the
panorama in EXP 3 are distributed on the feeder side and are not significantly
randomly distributed (f = 158°, r = 0.420, p = 0.00507). The histogram in Fig.
5c shows that the end point angles given by the pheromone lane are
distributed on the nest side and are not randomly distributed (f = 172°, r =
0.786, p < 0.0001), and they significantly differed from EXP 1-1 (p < 0.0001).
The number of U-turns was fewer than the non-U-turns (p < 0.0001). These
results show that U-turn behaviours are not observed without a rotating visual
cue, even if the foraging lane on the turntable was rotated (Movie ESM4).
Although the results of EXP 3 are similar to the results of EXP 1-2 with respect
to the absence of a U-turn (Fig. 11), the sequential patterns of sinuosity are
different from each other (Fig. 10a). This suggests that the ants tried to go
straight but were unable to, causing them to wander because their ‘ground’
was rotated and shaken.
(21) Page 5 line 54 etc. Again, the results of this experiment would be easier to follow if the
start were written in a narrative style. E.g. ‘When the rotating bridge was coated with
pheromone, the ants made a U-turn (Fig. 3h,i) as in Fig. 1d,e. Thus, they returned to the start
of the pheromone trail (Fig 4f) and ended up on the nest side (Fig 4g). When the bridge was
uncoated, the ants rarely made U-turns.....'
<U+F0E8> We put suggested statements in the texts and expanded by the following:
(P7L34-) When the rotating bridge was coated with pheromone, the ants
made a U-turn (Fig. 6b) as in Fig. 2b. Thus, they returned to the start of the
pheromone trail (Fig and ended up on the nest side. When the bridge was
uncoated, the ants rarely made U-turns (Fig.7b). All trajectories of each 60°
in EXP 4-1 were in the right-hand portion (Fig. 6b), whereas in EXP 4-2, the
trajectories were distributed in various ways (Fig. 7b, left). The similar
tendency was also found in Fig. 11.
(22) Discussion: My general worry about your Discussion is that you do not consider possible
alternative explanations of your interesting findings (see Initial paragraph for some
suggestions). You re-state the findings without arguing in detail how they might be
interpreted.
<U+F0E8> We re-stated our findings without arguing in detail and removed our old hypothesis in
which modality of stimulus is switched from odor to vision. The main part of Discussion
is rewritten by the following:
(P9L5-) The pheromone trail has no polarity, therefore EXP 1-1 never showed
the conflict between the pheromone trail and the visual cues, but did show the
conflict between prior knowledge on homing direction and present visual cues.
The ants followed the pheromone trail and walked straight because the prior
visual cues (i.e. visual cues when the turntable stopped) showed the nest in
front of the ant. Our experiments show that the ants followed the pheromone
trail with the help of visual cues. The ants never left the pheromone lane
whether the turntable rotated at 3 r/min or not; therefore, it is clear that the
ants followed the pheromone trail (Figs. 2, 3 and 5).
If the lane rotated very slowly at 1 r/min, most ants left the pheromone trail
and directly approached the nest independent of the pheromone trail (Figs. 4
and 8). This suggests that there could be a threshold value for the angle
between the lane and the feeder-nest axis below which the ant can identify
the conflict between the prior knowledge and the visual cues. In addition, the
threshold might be dependent on the rate of changing visual cues, which was
controlled by the rotation velocity of the turntable in our experiment. Thus, the
ants could not identify the conflict until the angle between the lane and the
feeder-nest axis reached a particular threshold of 90° (maximum) when the
turntable rotated 3 r/min. In contrast, the ants could identify the conflict even
if the angle was very small and directly approached the nest when the
turntable rotated very slowly at 1 r/min.
(23) Page 6 Line 26. Say the what local information is used for. e.g. guiding foraging routes.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer and added the suggested terms.
(24) Page 6 Line 32 what do you mean by 'contextual cue' here?
<U+F0E8> Because all reviewers pointed out that details of the visual cues should be removed and
to say simply such as “using visual cues” or something like that, we remove these
paragraphs and put the following:
(P8L27-) Garden ants, Lasius niger, live in a habitat that includes widespread
visual cues, such as bush, trees or distant cliffs; they learn quickly and use
local information for guiding foraging routes [24]. Even with the complexity of
maze-like trails, ants can forage routes and return home to their nest using
such information [24, 25]. Our experiments included several visual cues for
ant navigation, such as office furniture and experimental equipment. Ants are
known to use information from the visual panorama [26-29].
Ants can navigate even with a plain white wall or curtain [30], an
imitation of the skyline [31], or the global shape of the arena [32]. Because
the experiments were performed on ants on their first foraging trip on the
turntable, there was no memory effect [33] on the foraging. The motor input
effect in navigation [34] could be estimated by comparing the results of EXP
1-1 and EXP 3.
(25) Page 6 Line 33-38. Section from 'Researchers ...........conditions'. This controversy isn't
very relevant to your study. You could miss it out and just say: "Here, we use the word
'panorama' ......."
<U+F0E8> As mentioned in (24) we removed these sentences.
(26) Page 6 Line 48- Page 7 line 10. This detailed description of the experiments seems too
much a recapitulation of the results.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, we removed these duplicated sentences.
(27) Page 7 Line 11 et seq. You should discuss the several possible explanations of your
results and argue the pros and cons of each possibility in some detail. In particular it's
not clear whether ants are using the motion or the position of the panorama to trigger a
U-turn. What would happen if the disk were stepped rather than rotated through 100
degs? Would the ants still make a U-turn?
<U+F0E8> We accept that our experimental results never reveals that ants use the motion and that
the prominent use is switched from the odor to the visual cues. The final paragraph was
replaced by the following reasonable ones:
(P10L21) We investigated the paths taken by ants homing on a rotating table
or lane. We constructed a novel experimental design to provide previous
visual information guided by an olfactory cue and a present visual cue in
conflict in a continuous manner, we performed appropriate control conditions,
and crucially, we performed this without interfering directly with the animal.
Our results show that ants can modify their homing behaviour dependent on
a changing visual cue and that sensitivity to a changing visual cue is affected
by the olfactory cue and changing rate. These results should contribute
greatly to our understanding of how information from different modalities is
integrated in ants.
(28) Fig 1 and legend: Page 11 Line 21 at the end of (b) Add: 'The trajectories are shown
on the disk as though the disk had not rotated'. It might help to add an 'F' to the right side of
the lane and an 'N' to the left side. It would also help to label the two columns: '3 rev/min'
and '0 rev/min'
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before, so as to compare results of each experimental condition, we
prepared separated figure for each experiment, and detailed legends are pit in legends
in Fig. 2. Suggested sentences were put in legends in Fig. 2b, and the speed of rotation
was put in each Figure. F and N were not added because of too complicated.
(29) Fig 3 and legend. Why not divide this Fig into two, one Fig for experiment 3 and
another for 4i and 4ii?
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before we prepared separated figures for each experimental condition.
To Reviewer 2:
It is a great pleasure for Dr. Antoine Wystrach’s very positive estimation to our paper, and we
acknowledge your detailed and concrete comments. We accepted his comments and revised
our manuscript in following your comments. The main revisions are:
1. So as to evaluate the information perceived by the ants, an ant’s trajectory is divided into
not only two (each 90 degrees) but three (each 60 degrees), and sinuosity the reviewer
suggested are introduced.
2. So as to compare results of all experimental conditions with each other, individual figure
is prepared for each condition, where experimental setup, trajectory distribution, the
histogram of the angles formed by the point where the ants reached the edge of the table
or lane. The angle formed by the lane when the ants’ U-turn is relative to the direction of
the line between the feeder and the nest. These parameters can be compared with each
other.
3. The angle formed by the point where the ants reached the edge of the table or lane is
estimated with respect to both panorama and pheromone lane. How to measure the
angle is also represented by figure.
4. The discussion on the details of visual cues, whether it is landmark or not, was removed,
and the discussion on whether ants can receive motion or not was removed, In addition
the title was changed. Especially we abandoned the hypothesis of which ant’s navigation
tool is shifted from odor to visual information in U-turn, and instead of it we put
discussions on the integration of the odor and visual information.
On main points:
(1) The reviewer remarked data analysis by the following:
A) You display the first halves of the paths in blue and the second halves in red, overlaid.
By classifying the paths into two halves for each ants, you present information about the
path in relation to the path travelled itself rather than in relation to the information
perceived by the ants.
Then he gave suggestions:
I think it would be much more revealing to divide the paths into segments according to
the current extent of the angular conflict between the directions indicated by olfaction vs.
vision (i.e. the current orientation of the bridge).
And he concretely advised by the following:
For instance, it would be easy to divide each ants path into 3 portions: 1-path taken during
the first 60 degree of rotation of the bridge (i.e. odour and vision relatively in phase); 2-
from 60 to 120 degree (i.e. odour and vision are in great conflict); 3- from 120 to 180
degree (i.e. odour and vision are in phase again, if the ants has achieved a U-turn). Given
that the bridge rotates a constant speed within condition, this can be simply achieved by
dividing the paths into time bins. (I guess most of the data fall into the first 180degree
of bridge rotation); if not you could divide the whole 360degree into four 90degree bins
(2 with odour and vision in phases and 2 odour and vision in conflicts).
<U+F0E8> By following the reviewer, we divide each ant path into 3 portions for each experiment.
The following figure shows a typical example.
Although we estimated the average path sinuosity, and the average speed for these three
categories, there is little difference in term of the average speed for three portions of ant path.
However, the average path sinuosity is represented for each portion in Fig. 10 such as
(2) The reviewer remarked data analysis by the following:
B) You display a circular plot of “the angle formed by the lane when the ants reached the
edge of the rotating table”. I am not sure exactly what you mean by this. Does that come
down to the position of one of the end of the bridge at the moment the ants reach the border?
If that’s the case did you take the actual end of the odour bridge the ants arrived at or did you
focus on one edge (although it would seem a different one across condition)? In any case I
think these data are misleading because 1- It confounds the amount of rotation with whether
the ant made a U-turn or not and 2-some ants reached the side of the arena at locations far
away from the odour bridge itself, particularly in the low speed rotation condition, so that the
current odour bridge position seems a bit irrelevant.
<U+F0E8> We distinguished edge of turntable, edge of lane and margin of the lane.
edge of turntable (disk)
edge of lane margin of lane
On this point (2), the reviewer suggested:
Suggestion:
I would show two circular histograms per condition: the location at which the ants reach the
side of the circular arena 1- given the panorama (absolute coordinate ignoring the rotation)
and 2- given the odour (coordinate relative to the odour bridge, compensating for the amount
of rotation, this should lead to a bimodal distribution for some ant have display a U-turn and
other not). The first circular plot would show how odour affects the use of panorama (probably
by increasing the scatter around the nest direction); and the second circular plot would show
how the panorama affects the use of the odour (by displaying U-turn, and/or by increasing
scatter too, and to what extant? I believe plotting your data this way would be very revealing.
<U+F0E8> We distinguished the angle given by panorama from that by pheromone lane by the
following.
These two angles are employed to measure the point the ant reaches the edge of the
turntable, and we show distribution of the angle as mentioned above. If the ant made a U
turn correctly, the distribution of the angle with respect to panorama and pheromone is
obtained as shown below.
Explanations for the angle given by panorama and by pheromone lane is given in Figure 9
such as,
(3) The reviewer remarked data analysis by the following:
C) The division of your different experiments in subcategories seems a bit arbitrary (for
instance, why are exp1-1 and exp1-2 separated from exp2?). I just see 6 conditions (4 with
circular area and 2 with bounded bridges). Separating the different experiments into different
figures hinders the comparison across conditions.
<U+F0E8> We agree the reviewer, and prepared individual figure for each experimental condition.
For each experiment, each figure contains four panels. The explanation of panels are
given in Figure 2 legend:
(a) The rotational structure in the experimental apparatus of EXP 1-1. (b) Each
trajectory (top) and the density distribution (bottom) of ant’s walking on the
turntable. The trajectories are shown on the disk as though the disk had not
rotated. Each trajectory is divided into four portions and the first three are shown.
1st portion, the trajectory taken during rotation from 0° to 60° (top or bottom right);
2nd portion, from 60° to 120° (top or bottom centre); 3rd portion, from 120° to 180°
(top or bottom left) and 4th portion, over 180° (omitted). The density distribution
of the trajectory is graded from more dense (red) to less dense (yellow to white).
The average walking speed of all ants is calculated and written at the bottom
right. (c) The histogram of the angles formed by the point where the ants reached
the edge of the table or lane, given by the panorama (green) and given by the
pheromone lane (violet). For the former one, the 0° is set to the start point (i.e.
feeder side), and for the latter, the 0° is set to the lane direction (refer to Fig. 9a
and b). The distribution of the angle given by the panorama is also represented
by the circular graph. An arrow represents the mean end point angle, the
resultant arrow length corresponds to the angle concentration, and the dots on
the exterior of the circle indicate individual data points. In EXP 1-1, the peak of
the histogram given by the panorama is around 180° and that given by the
pheromone lane is around 0°. This indicates that most ants completed a U-turn
(returns at 180° given by the panorama) and returned to the starting point (0°
given by the pheromone lane). (d) The angle formed by the lane when the ants’
U-turn is relative to the direction of the line between the feeder and the nest. The
number of U-turns over the total number of the ants is written at the bottom right.
We defined U-turn as the trajectory that meets the following three conditions: (1)
the angle given by pheromone is less than 15°, which means the ant came back
around to the starting side; (2) stepped forward to the nest side more than 30
mm, (3) ants made just one turn.
(4) The reviewer remarked on the manuscript by the following:
Overall, I believe the pitch of the introduction and discussion is confusing. Some element
mentioned at length seem inappropriate (e.g., distinction between landmark and panorama)
and other topic are missing (e.g., multiple cue integration in ants during conflict situation). I
would recommend rewriting the intro and discussion following the suggestions below.
D) Mentioning cue integration. You seem to miss to mention the topic of ‘cue integration’
which is absolutely related to your study. In the introduction, you should mention that ants
are known to rely on a navigational toolkit consisting of multiple strategies (Wehner 2008
Myrm news; Wystrach et al., 2014 PRSB). And recent work have put some of these
navigational strategies into conflict and shown that ants do not switch ‘on’ and ‘off’ between
these strategies, but integrate them together (Collett 2012 cur. Biol.; Legge et al., 2014 JEB;
Wystrach et al., 2014 JCPA). These recent works have focused on the interaction between
Path integration and visual panorama. Here you investigate the interaction between visual
panorama and odour trails, and crucially, your set-up enable to vary the extent of the
directional conflict in a continuous manner, without interfering directly animal. This, at least
to me, should be the pitch of your introduction. Also, the discussion should relate to the topic
of cue integration. You should mention what aspects of the interaction you show between
odour and vision differs from the integration between Path integration and vision. And discuss
in the light of your new results how synergy between vision and odour emerges. This would
be very interesting.
<U+F0E8> We completely agree with the reviewer, remove the inadequate topics such as
distinction between landmark and panorama and put the sentences concerning cue
integration. The following sentences were put in Introduction:
(P2L9-) Ants are known to rely on a navigational toolkit consisting of multiple
strategies [18, 19]. By employing information sources for multiple uses, how
do ants adapt their navigation strategy where different kinds of cues are
afforded and can the strategies conflict? Grüter et al. [20] showed that route
memory overrides trail pheromones after only one visit to a food source when
the two cues are inconsistent. Recent works have focused on the interaction
between path integration and the visual panorama and have shown that
when they are put into conflict, ants integrate these strategies together rather
than switching either one ‘on’ or ‘off’ [21-23].
[18] Wehner, R. 2008. The desert ant's navigational toolkit: Procedural rather
than positional knowledge. Navigation. Journal of the Institute of Navigation, 55.
[19] Wystrach, A., Schwarz, S., Baniel, A. & Cheng, K. 2013. Backtracking
behaviour in lost ants: an additional strategy in their navigational toolkit.
Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 280.
[21] Collett, M. 2012. How Navigational Guidance Systems Are Combined in a
Desert Ant. Current biology : CB, 22, 927-932.
[22] Legge, E. L., Wystrach, A., Spetch, M. L. & Cheng, K. 2014. Combining sky
and earth: desert ants (Melophorus bagoti) show weighted integration of celestial
and terrestrial cues. The Journal of experimental biology, 217, 4159-4166.
[23] Wystrach, A., Schwarz, S., Schultheiss, P., Baniel, A. & Cheng, K. 2014.
Multiple sources of celestial compass information in the central Australian desert
ant Melophorus bagoti. Journal of Comparative Physiology A, 1-11.
(5) The reviewer remarked on the manuscript by the following:
E) Sparing the Landmark or panorama debate. In the abstract, introduction and
discussion, you mention the now old debate of whether landmarks and panorama act as
different or as a same cue (see detail comment below). This debate is not related to your
current question and mentioning it only obscures your point (which is about odour/vision
interaction). I would recommend getting rid of the word ‘landmark’ throughout your text
and simply stay solid and safe by saying that ants are known to use information from the
visual panorama. And indeed evidence show that ants use such visual information in
laboratory condition. The references you cite are indeed supporting these points, and
can be gathered behind such general claim. This is enough to justify your present
approach, and will leave you space to discuss matters more related to your study (see
D).
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, and throughout the manuscript we remove the old debate of
whether landmarks and panorama act as different or as a same cues. Also we remove
the term, landmark throughout the manuscript. We simply said that ants are known to
use information from the visual panorama in the first paragraph of Discussion:
(P8L30) Our experiments included several visual cues for ant navigation,
such as office furniture and experimental equipment. Ants are known to use
information from the visual panorama [26-29].
(6) The reviewer remarked on the manuscript by the following:
F) Rotation, Movie and optic flow. It is true that your set up impose a continuous rotation on
the ant visual system, but in no case this suggests that ants are using “information based on
motion parallax or optic flow (Page 7 L14)” or seeing a “Movie”. On the contrary, your results
rather suggests that ants are able to cancel this rotational optic flow so as to be enable to
match the visual panorama whether it rotates (Exp1-1) or not(Exp1-2). Rotational optic flow
may be used to help the ant compensate for the rotation and maintain a straight course in
regards to the panorama, as an optomotor response. You should mention these points in
your discussion, and I recommend changing the title for these reasons.
<U+F0E8> We completely agree with the reviewer. We think that we can say ant can see the motion
if an ant can interpolate between visual snapshots and then can anticipate the future
vision. But there is no evidence in our manuscript. So we remove all about the statements
of which ants are using information based on motion parallax or optic flow. The title was
replaced by, “Rotating panoramic view: Interaction between visual and olfactory cues in
ants”. On canceling optic flow we put the sentences in Discussion by the following:
(P9L1) Our results also suggests that ants are able to cancel this rotational
optic flow so as to be enable to match the visual panorama whether it rotates
(Exp1-1) or not(Exp1-2). Rotational optic flow may be used to help the ant
compensate for the rotation and maintain a straight course in regards to the
panorama, as an optomotor response.
On detailed points:
(1) Title: I suggest changing the title (see F for a reason). Perhaps something like “Rotating
panoramic view: Interaction between visual and olfactory cues in ants” (See D).
<U+F0E8> We replaced the title by suggested one.
(2) P1. L25: you should avoid mentioning “landmarks” or “skylight compass” (these are
subcategories of cues that does not concern nor affect your current work); but rather
mention the existence of the toolkit and then focus on the cues of interest in your study:
information from visual surroundings and odour trails.
<U+F0E8> We remove “landmarks” and “skylight compass” throughout the manuscript, and mention
the existence of the toolkit. It is typically put in the abstract:
(P1L12) Insects use navigational toolkit consisting of multiple strategies such
as path integration, view-dependent recognition methods and olfactory cues.
The question arises, how do directional cues afforded by a visual panorama
combine with olfactory cues from a pheromone trail to guide ants towards their
nest. We positioned a garden ant Lasius niger on a rotating table, whereon a
segment of a pheromone trail relative to the stationary panorama was rotated
while the ant walked along the trail towards its nest. The speed of rotation was
equivalent to the ant’s walking speed, and although the pheromone trail was
initially oriented along the food-nest axis, it became oriented perpendicular to
that axis when the ant was roughly halfway along the segment. The ant
completed a U-turn at about this point and so travelled in a nest-ward direction
without leaving the trail. These results suggest that the ants persist on the
pheromone trail and use visual input to determine their direction of travel
along the trail. Other experiments seem to show that olfactory information
affords a kind of condition under which ants use visual information.
(3) P1. L30-31. The notion of directional conflict and cue combination should be mentioned.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned in (2) on minor points, we revised Abstract and put the sentence such as,
“The question arises, how do directional cues afforded by a visual panorama combine
with olfactory cues from a pheromone trail to guide ants towards their nest.”
(4) P1. L40. “faster computational capacities than expected”. I am not aware of the
existence of a current estimation of how fast this is supposed to operate? If yes, please
clarify. Why should it be slow at the first place?
<U+F0E8> As mentioned in (2) and (3), we revised Abstract and remove the sentences pointed out.
(5) P1. L50 – P2. L10. Rather than bringing miscellaneous examples, you should quote
reviews that speak about the navigational toolkit (see D) and gather the multiple species
onto same aspect of the toolkit (for instance, using the visual panorama, path integration
and systematic search are strategies shared by ants and bees), you don’t need to go into
the detail of potential differences between species, apart from the fact that your ants do
use odour trails, which raise a point of interest in your particular study.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, and put the sentences in Introduction:
(P2L8-) Ants are known to rely on a navigational toolkit consisting of multiple
strategies [18, 19]. By employing information sources for multiple uses, how
do ants adapt their navigation strategy where different kinds of cues are
afforded and can the strategies conflict? Grüter et al. [20] showed that route
memory overrides trail pheromones after only one visit to a food source when
the two cues are inconsistent. Recent works have focused on the interaction
between path integration and the visual panorama and have shown that
when they are put into conflict, ants integrate these strategies together rather
than switching either one ‘on’ or ‘off’ [21-23].
(6) P2. L13-28. The work summarised in this paragraph (Wystrach et al., 2011 Front. Zool)
is misunderstood and inappropriate here. This paper shows that ants do NOT segregate
between landmark and distant panorama. They use panoramic views that encompass
both at once. This work should be used to support the fact that ants use visual
information in general (see point E).
<U+F0E8> We removed this paragraph, and instead of this, we put the sentence as the following:
(P2L13-) Recent works have focused on the interaction between path
integration and the visual panorama and have shown that when they are put
into conflict, ants integrate these strategies together rather than switching
either one ‘on’ or ‘off’ [21-23].
(7) Method. It would be good to know whether or not the ant have exposed to the route
between feeder and nest before the tests started.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, and the following sentences are put in Materials and
Methods section:
(P3L17) For the experiments, the ants were used one at a time for each trial.
After a trial, the ants were eliminated; hence, the ants were naive to the
turntable and to the visual panorama seen from the turntable in all
experiments. Some ants, however, experienced visual panorama seen from
non-rotated lane connecting the feeder and the foraging box because they
could be employed to the preparation for the pheromone coated lane.
(8) P.5 L29. “visual panorama” rather than perspective.
<U+F0E8> We removed the term, perspective, and the following was put in the last paragraph of the
experiment 1-1 in Results:
(P6L29) These results show that the ants changed their direction depending
on the panoramic views, whereas they never left the pheromone lane.
(Movies ESM1 and ESM2), and that the ants used the pheromone trail as a
cue for foraging and also when using the visual cues.
(9) P.6 L19. Again, “visual panorama” rather than perspective.
<U+F0E8> We removed the term, perspective, and the following was put in the last paragraph of the
experiment 4 in Results:
(P8L21) These results show that the ants required a pheromone trail during
turning to follow the rotating visual panorama (Movies ESM1 and ESM2) and
suggests that ants used the pheromone trail as the primary cue and the
visual information as the secondary cue in foraging.
(10) Discussion: The whole first paragraph of the discussion should be reconsidered
(see E and D)
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before, we reconsidered and rewrote the discussion section in following
the reviewer’s comment. Especially, we abandoned the hypothesis of which ant’s
navigation tool is shifted from odor to visual information in U-turn, and instead of it we put
discussions on the integration of the odor and visual information.
(11) P6. L34. The work you mis-used earlier (Wystrach et al., 2011 Front. Zool) is instead
supporting perfectly the sentence you mention here “Researchers have also suggested
that landmarks may not be segregated from the panorama”.
<U+F0E8> Instead of this reference, we put the following sentence:
(P8L30) Our experiments included several visual cues for ant navigation,
such as office furniture and experimental equipment. Ants are known to use
information from the visual panorama [26-29].
(12) P6. L46. What do you mean by ‘memory’ here? Please specify.
<U+F0E8> Since the discussion was revised very much and indefinite expressions were removed.
(12) P6. L46. Indeed motor cues should be mentioned, notably the optomotor response
and motor routine memories. Kohler and Wehner 2005 is not an appropriate reference
here, it should be Lent et al., 2009 cur. Biol.
<U+F0E8> We referred to the article; 34 Lent, D.D., Graham, P. & Collett, T.S. 2009. A motor
component to the memories of habitual foraging routes in wood ants? Curr. Biol. 19
115-121.
(13) P7, L12. I don’t think your data support theories that insects use information based on
motion parallax of optic flow (see F).
<U+F0E8> Since we revised Discussion part very much and these indefinite parts are removed.
(14) P7, L20-22: “At a low degree of revolution the ants seemed to rely on the pheromones
and followed the trail in a typically manner for their return journey”. This seems inappropriate
as your figure shows that ants went off the pheromone trail during the second half of the
journey with low degree of revolution. The absence of significant difference in the number of
U-turn vs. non Uturn is misleading as it is clear that ants displayed more U-turns than in the
no-rotation condition. The panorama definitely plays a big role here. The way I suggested to
present the data (see point A, notably the circular plot of the ants’ exit locations relatively to
the panorama) should hopefully reveal what is going on in this condition.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned at first, we abandoned the hypothesis of which ant’s navigation tool is
shifted from odor to visual information in U-turn, and instead of it we put discussions on
the integration of the odor and visual information. Thus we removed these sentences.
(15) P7. L45. I would remove the last sentence (see F) and instead pitch your discussion on
the interaction between odour trails and vision (see end of D).
<U+F0E8> We also agree with the reviewer and remove the last sentence. Instead of the previous
sentence, we put the following sentences:
(P10L21) We investigated the paths taken by ants homing on a rotating table
or lane. We constructed a novel experimental design to provide previous
visual information guided by an olfactory cue and a present visual cue in
conflict in a continuous manner, we performed appropriate control conditions,
and crucially, we performed this without interfering directly with the animal.
Our results show that ants can modify their homing behaviour dependent on
a changing visual cue and that sensitivity to a changing visual cue is affected
by the olfactory cue and changing rate. These results should contribute
greatly to our understanding of how information from different modalities is
integrated in ants.
To Reviewer 3:
We acknowledge the reviewer’s detailed comments and accept what he mentioned. The
main points we revised in following your points are the following:
1. Since the pheromone route has no polarity, ants need visual cues even in walking on the
pheromone route. We accept this reviewer’s point. Thus we remove our “old” hypothesis
of which an ant switches from the olfactory cue to the visual cue in U-turn, and mentioned
in following your lines. Misleading “conflict” between odor and vision is also removed.
2. So as to compare results of all experimental conditions with each other, individual figure
is prepared for each condition, where experimental setup, trajectory distribution, the
histogram of the angles formed by the point where the ants reached the edge of the table
or lane, The angle formed by the lane when the ants’ U-turn is relative to the direction of
the line between the feeder and the nest. These parameters can be compared with each
other. Since the second reviewer commented each trajectory is divided into three, we
accepted it.
3. The angle formed by the point where the ants reached the edge of the table or lane is
estimated with respect to panorama and pheromone lane. How to measure the angle is
also represented by figure.
4. The discussion on the details of visual cues, whether it is landmark or not, was removed,
and the discussion on whether ants can receive motion or not was removed, In addition
the title was changed. Especially we abandoned the hypothesis of which ant’s navigation
tool is shifted from odor to visual information in U-turn, and instead of it we put
discussions on the integration of the odor and visual information.
Each response:
(1) The reviewer said, “This is an interesting study into the interaction of chemical trail
following and visual cues in ants, but it is not very clearly presented, and the interpretation
of the results seems unnecessarily complex. Basically what seems to be shown is that
this species of ants will follow a pheromone trail but that this trail is not inherently
directional, therefore they also use visual cues to disambiguate the direction, and will
reverse direction if the panorama is (gradually) reversed”.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before, we completely change our interpretation of the results of our
experiments. For example, we put the following statement in the abstract:
(P1L15-) We positioned a garden ant Lasius niger on a rotating table,
whereon a segment of a pheromone trail relative to the stationary panorama
was rotated while the ant walked along the trail towards its nest. The speed
of rotation was equivalent to the ant’s walking speed, and although the
pheromone trail was initially oriented along the food-nest axis, it became
oriented perpendicular to that axis when the ant was roughly halfway along
the segment. The ant completed a U-turn at about this point and so travelled
in a nest-ward direction without leaving the trail. These results suggest that
the ants persist on the pheromone trail and use visual input to determine their
direction of travel along the trail.
(2) The reviewer said, “Title: it is really not clear why the title refers to a ‘movie’. In the current
study, a single snapshot or remembered landmark direction would suffice to explain the
results”.
<U+F0E8> We replace the title by “Rotating panoramic view: Interaction between visual and
olfactory cues in ants”.
(3) The reviewer said, “Abstract: this sets up the problem as “How fast and accurate can
insects re-evaluate each type of information and navigate under conditions where the
reliability of the types of information changes?” and the results as showing “that ants can
precisely respond to continuous degree changes for inconsistencies between different
cues, odors and visual information”. But there is nothing in this study which suggests ants
are ‘re-evaluating’ anything, or that they are influenced by the cue reliability, or are
responding in a precise or continuous way to the cue inconsistencies”
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer and the abstract is completely replaced by new one. The
question and answer in Abstract is the following:
(P1L13: Question) The question arises, how do directional cues afforded by a visual
panorama combine with olfactory cues from a pheromone trail to guide ants towards
their nest.
(P1L21: Answer) These results suggest that the ants persist on the pheromone trail
and use visual input to determine their direction of travel along the trail. Other
experiments seem to show that olfactory information affords a kind of condition under
which ants use visual information.
(4) The reviewer said, “Some of these questions might be answered by more detailed
analysis of the ant trajectories. Do ants gradually reorient in response to gradual rotation
(do they even go off the trail in following the panorama) or do they exhibit a ‘decision
point’ (U-turn)? “
<U+F0E8> As mentioned in (3), we replaced the question itself by new one. Thus we need no new
analysis to answer the question. However, each ant trajectory is divided not into two
but into three parts, and the sinuosity was newly analyzed. For example,
(P10L14) With respect to sinuosity in each 60° phase, graphs of EXP 1-1 and
2 show the same tendency and that of EXP 3 is different to the former ones
(Fig. 10a). This result is reasonable because sinuosity decreased in ants’ that
completed a U-turn in the middle phase of EXP 1-1 and 2, whereas EXP 3 did
not show a decrease due to no U-turn. Figure 10b shows a comparison
between EXP 1-1 and both EXP 4-1 and EXP 4-2 with respect to sinuosity.
Sinuosity in EXP 4 showed no decrease in the middle phase. This is also
reasonable because of a very fast U-turn in EXP 4-1 and no U-turn in EXP 4-
2.
(5) The reviewer said, “If the latter, how variable is this for different ants, and how long do
they take to make it? Would they make a change if the rotation was sudden? Can they
use the visual cues alone? Experiment 4 shows they do not reverse if rotated with no
trail, but would they go home successfully if there was no trail and no rotation, or become
equally confused? Would the result be the same without a bridge? What minimum speed
of rotation would cause them to become confused in the absence of odour?”
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before, we removed our old question about ‘re-evaluating’. Thus we do not
have to answer our old questions.
(6) The reviewer said, “Intro, p2 line 25, it is not clear what is meant by ‘we can extract
additional evidence that ants can use to adapt their strategies’ – what additional evidence
are the ants using, or do you mean the study referenced can be used by the authors as
evidence that ants can adapt their strategies?”
<U+F0E8> In Introduction we removed the indefinite last half of the third paragraph, and instead of
it, we put the following paragraph:
(P2L9-) Ants are known to rely on a navigational toolkit consisting of multiple
strategies [18, 19]. By employing information sources for multiple uses, how
do ants adapt their navigation strategy where different kinds of cues are
afforded and can the strategies conflict? Grüter et al. [20] showed that route
memory overrides trail pheromones after only one visit to a food source when
the two cues are inconsistent. Recent works have focused on the interaction
between path integration and the visual panorama and have shown that when
they are put into conflict, ants integrate these strategies together rather than
switching either one ‘on’ or ‘off’ [21-23].
(7) The reviewer said, “The end of the introduction again refers to the speed and accuracy
of cue combination, and the continuous nature of the induced cue conflict. But the
behaviour of the ants and analysis does not show ‘accuracy’, just that they make one of
two choices, to continue despite the panorama, or reorient”.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned before, we removed the question about re-evaliating and/or accuracy in
foraging. Thus we do not have to prepare analysis to answer our old questions.
(8) The reviewer said, “Methods: it is unclear to what extent the ants had pre-training that
might have familiarised them with the visual surroundings- had they followed the same
route frequently before testing? Or was this potentially their first foraging trip along this
route? A picture of the visual surroundings (e.g. panorama from the centre of the turn
table) should be included”.
<U+F0E8> What extent the ants had pre-training was put in Materials and Methods section by the
following. Since in general a picture of the visual surroundings containing experimental
equipment and furniture is not shown, and we mentioned absence of pre-training we think
the picture is not necessary.
(P3L17) For the experiments, the ants were used one at a time for each trial.
After a trial, the ants were eliminated; hence, the ants were naive to the
turntable and to the visual panorama seen from the turntable in all
experiments. Some ants, however, experienced visual panorama seen from
non-rotated lane connecting the feeder and the foraging box because they
could be employed to the preparation for the pheromone coated lane.
(9) The reviewer said, “I found it very hard to understand the analysis method and had to
reread this several times. Is it correct that the (statistically) analysed position of the ants
is always only with reference to the single dimension of the foraging lane, and not the
two dimensional path as shown in 1b?”
<U+F0E8> We think difficulty of analysis resulted from unclear definition of the angle of which an ant
reaches the edge of the turntable as shown below. We distinguished the angle given by
panorama from that by pheromone lane by the following.
These two angles are employed to measure the point the ant reaches the edge of the
turntable, and we show distribution of the angle as mentioned above. If the ant made a U
turn correctly, the distribution of the angle with respect to panorama and pheromone is
obtained as shown below.
Explanations for the angle given by panorama and by pheromone lane is given in Figure 9
such as,
(10) The reviewer said, “How exactly is a single location for the U-turn determined,
given that the existence of a U-turn is defined with respect to where the ants returned –
e.g. did no ants make multiple direction reversals? Particularly around line 26 on (p4) it
would be much clearer if the three different measures used were explained in the order
that they are reported in the results: 1) the orientation of the ‘end points’ which I take to
mean the orientation with respect to the home direction at which the ants reached the
edge of the table (actually, I am still confused about this as in the figure captions this is
described as the “angle formed by the lane when the ants reached to the edge of the
rotating table” – does that mean ants were always in the lane at that point, and never left
the lane to follow visual cues to the edge? This is very important to clarify); simple
comparison of U-turn frequency under different conditions; the orientation of the foraging
lane with respect to the panorama when each ant made its U-turn. And then explain mean
orientation vectors, circular statistics etc”.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned in (9), we defined the orientation vector in detail. Especially explanations
for them are put in Method of analysis by the following:
(P5L5) To analyse the end point of the trajectory, we measured the following
two types of angles: the angle given by a panorama (Fig. 9a) and the angle
given by a pheromone (which is the angle given by the foraging lane route)
(Fig. 9b). The orientation vector is defined by the arrow started from the
centre of the turntable to the endpoint at which an ant reaches the edge of
the turntable as shown in Fig. 9a and 9b. The mean orientation vectors are
in polar coordinates: the angle f describes the mean direction of a foraging
lane when an ant exhibits a U-turn on the stage, and the length r describes
the level of scatter surrounding the mean.
(11) The reviewer said, “Results, fig 1b, how is the ‘half-way’ point decided that allows
each half of the trajectory to be shown separately? Is it by duration of the path, or ants
reaching the half-way point along the lane? It is not clear if the spread of end directions
reflects ants always reaching the edge within the odour lane but at different times (so the
lane was not aligned to the home position) or reaching the edge in a position outside the
lane (see the issue mentioned above in methods about the lack of clarity of this
measure). If both occured, it might be appropriate to analyse separately”.
<U+F0E8> As mentioned first, we showed two representations for the ants’ trajectory. In the first one
each trajectory is divided into three with respect to rotational angle (Fig. 2-7). In the
second one each trajectory is divided into two with respect to the time (Fig. 11). The
explanations are put in the first and the third paragraph of Results. The questions on the
measure of endpoint orientation would be resolved because we showed two kinds of
orientation vector given by panorama and by pheromone lane.
(P6L2) The density distributions for each trajectory are presented on the
bottom row of Fig. 2b. Thus, the trajectories of both the first and third 60°
rotations are on the right-hand portion of the area, whereas the trajectory of
the second 60° rotation is on the middle portion. Fig. 11 also shows ants
trajectories on a rotating table.
(P5L26) Fig. 11 shows ant trajectories and the density distribution of ants for
each experiment. In each trial, a trajectory was divided into two parts, the first
half (blue) and the second half (red), with respect to the time.
(12) The reviewer said, “Experiment 2B seems interesting as it looks like the slow rotation
leads to some deviation away from the odour trail in favour of staying aligned with the visual
cues. This is interesting and should be discussed”.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, and then we put detailed results in Result section and put
discussion about new hypothesis in Discussion section:
(P7L7) In EXP 2, the sinuosity of the second portion (from 60° to 120° rotation)
was lower than the first and third portions, the same as the case in EXP 1-1
(Fig. 10). As shown in Fig. 8, some ants left the pheromone lane and directly
approaches the nest soon after they noticed where the nest is. These results
show that ants could use changing visual cues even if the visual cues are
changed very slowly (Movie ESM3).
(P9L12) If the lane rotated very slowly at 1 r/min, some ants left the
pheromone trail and directly approached the nest independent of the
pheromone trail (Figs. 4 and 8). This suggests that there could be a threshold
value for the angle between the lane and the feeder-nest axis below which
the ant can identify the conflict between the prior knowledge and the visual
cues. In addition, the threshold might be dependent on the rate of changing
visual cues, which was controlled by the rotation velocity of the turntable in
our experiment. Thus, the ants could not identify the conflict until the angle
between the lane and the feeder-nest axis reached a particular threshold of
90° (maximum) when the turntable rotated 3 r/min. In contrast, the ants could
identify the conflict even if the angle was very small and directly approached
the nest when the turntable rotated very slowly at 1 r/min.
(13) The reviewer said, “Experiment 4 needs the control condition of no pheromone and
no rotation. Maybe ants just need a pheromone trail to home, irrespective of how the
visual environment might be changing or not”.
<U+F0E8> We conducted the control experiment for Exp 4, no pheromone, as shown in Fig. 6 and
Fig. 7. No rotation condition was conducted preliminarily and results similar with Exp 1-
2. We put sentences on control experiment in the following:
(P4L29) To test the ants' behaviour when there was no pheromone trail, we
used a rotating 'bridge' instead of a rotating disk. The width of the bridge (3cm)
was the same as the lane. In one experiment the bridge was coated with
pheromone (EXP 4-1) as shown in Figs. 1 and 6a, and in a second experiment
the bridge was not treated (EXP 4-2) as shown in Figs. 1 and 7a. Rotational
speed was 3 revolutions per min, as in EXP 1-1.
(14) The reviewer said, “Discussion: it seems odd to start here with lengthy discussion
of the potential difference between panoramic and landmark cues in order to simply say
that these are not relevant to this experiment. If it is really necessary to explain what they
mean by ‘panorama’ then this belongs in the introduction or methods, not in ‘prime’ place
at the start of the discussion”.
<U+F0E8> This point was also commented by other reviewers, so we removed discussion about
distinction of panorama and landmark. Especially we removed the indefinite problematic
term, landmark throughout the text.
(15) The reviewer said, “P7 line 10 “These results suggest that ants can perceive a rotating
panorama and precisely use it for guidance when they almost lose sight of their direction.
The evidence also supports theories that insects use information based on motion parallax
or optic flow”.
Not really, they show that a large enough alteration in the panorama will override continuing
in the same direction along a trail. But it seems likely that trail information is inherently
ambiguous for a 180 shift. It would need closer analysis of the actual tracks and of different
speeds, or jumps, in the visual information to determine if the guidance is precise and/or
depends on visual motion”.
<U+F0E8> We agree with the reviewer, and then we abandoned the hypothesis of which an ant can
perceive the motion. In following this line, we replaced the title of our manuscript and put
another hypothesis (also see (12)).
(16) The reviewer said, “P7 Line 27 on: “The data directly show that ants can efficiently and
immediately switch between multiple uses of navigate information within approximately 10
seconds, while previous studies have suggested that such changes require a relatively long
period of time [17-19].” I do not think this is an accurate reflection either of these results or of
the (much wider than cited) existing evidence about how quickly ants can switch between
strategies or strategy combinations”.
<U+F0E8> We completely agree with the reviewer, and we removed our old interpretation in which
an ant could estimate and calibrate its walking on the rotating turntable. Instead of it we
put the following paragraph as a conclusive statement:
(P10L21) We investigated the paths taken by ants homing on a rotating table
or lane. We constructed a novel experimental design to provide previous
visual information guided by an olfactory cue and a present visual cue in
conflict in a continuous manner, we performed appropriate control conditions,
and crucially, we performed this without interfering directly with the animal.
Our results show that ants can modify their homing behaviour dependent on
a changing visual cue and that sensitivity to a changing visual cue is affected
by the olfactory cue and changing rate. These results should contribute
greatly to our understanding of how information from different modalities is
integrated in ants.
To Reviewer: 1
We deeply appreciated for careful comments from Professor Tom Collett. In the same time, we
apologized for our poor English. All suggestions we got were needed to be accepted, thus we
took them entirely to our paper.
In this revision, main points is the following:
Main points:
1. We replaced the expression along with your suggestions so as to make it easier to follow.
2. The figures were rearranged in a new order.
(Please see also following ‘Each response’ (16).)
Each response:
(1) p. 39, l. 17-19.Rotational and translational speeds can't really be equivalent suggest that
instead you write 'The rotational speed of the table (3 rpm) was set so that the table would
rotate through about 90 degs by the time that an ant had walked from the start to the centre
of the table.'
<U+F0E8> We accepted this suggestion and replaced with it.
(2) p. 39, l. 22-23. I found this sentence obscure. Is it needed?”
<U+F0E8> We agree that this sentence was not clear, thus erased it.
(3) p. 40, l. 17. Replace 'using' by 'on'?”
<U+F0E8> We replaced 'using' by 'on'.
(4) p. 40. Lines 18-23 are hard to follow. Suggest something like: 'The ants' path between nest
and feeder crossed a circular table on which a straight pheromone trail had been laid. Once
an ant left the feeder and started to follow the trail, the table was made to rotate so that
visual cues indicating the direction of the nest came into increasing conflict with the
orientation of the trail. Ants tended to stick to the pheromone trail despite the rotation and
they corrected their direction by making U-turns on the trail. We used several variants of this
methodology to investigate how the ant is guided by these two cues on its trip back to the
nest.'
<U+F0E8> We accepted your suggestion and adapted it in this part.
(5) p. 40, l. 30. It would help to say whether or not the colony had any opportunity to learn the
location of the nest relative to room cues before the experiment began.
<U+F0E8> That is not, so we added the mention as follows:
(P.2 L.36-) In the main experiment the turntable was rotated in a stationary room
giving the ants a changing view of the visual panorama. Before the experiment
began, the colony hadn’t any opportunity to learn the location of the nest relative to
room cues.
(6) p. 40, l. 35 'the turntable'
<U+F0E8> We added ‘the’.
(7) p. 40, l. 35-36 Instead of 'which could yield panorama' suggest 'giving the ants a changing
view of the visual panorama'
<U+F0E8> We accepted this suggestion and replaced with it.
(8) p. 41, l.2 'and to access the'
<U+F0E8> We corrected the order as follows:
(P.3 L.4-) The colony was allowed to explore the lane and to access the turntable
on a platform at the end of the lane for 20 min.
(9) p. 41, l.3 'During this period at least 15 ants contributed to a pheromone trail which lasted
about one hour. To ensure ants encountered a good trail, a new pheromone coated sheet
was used for each 30 min experiment.'
<U+F0E8> We accepted your suggestion and adopted it.
(10) p. 41, l. 19. In principle, all ants could learn the panorama during the outward trip.
<U+F0E8> This was what we wanted to say, thus we added it the end of this paragraph.
(11) p. 41 l. 23-24. Sentence 'In Exp 1.1......... 4.2' is not clear.
<U+F0E8> To improve it, we erase this sentence and added another explanation in the previous
sentence as follows:
(P.3 L.26-) A turn stage and an ascending slope were connected with a foraging
lane on a turntable (EXP 1-1, 1-2, 2 and 3) or a bridge (EXP 4-1 and 4-2). The
foraging lane led to the feeder. The turntable was covered with a sheet of
acid-free paper, which was frequently replaced with a new sheet.
(12) p.4l. 1 32-33. Sentence 'Ants that ...eliminated'. This sentence repeats p. 41 l. 17-18 and
could be eliminated.
<U+F0E8> As accepting this comment, we eliminated it.
(13) p. 42, l. 5-6. See above p. 39, l7-19. Suggest that you replace 'which is... journey' by
something like: 'This rotational speed meant that the ant was about half way across the
turn-table by the time the trail had rotated through 90 deg. We also observed what the ants
did when the turn-table was stationary.'
<U+F0E8> We completely accepted and adapted it.
(14) p. 42, l 13-19. suggest it can all be replaced by: 'We investigated the ants' behaviour when
the speed of rotation was sufficiently slow (1 rpm) for the ants to reach the nest side without
making a U-turn.'
<U+F0E8> We accepted and adapted it.
(15) p. 42, l. 23 suggest: 'The ants could enter or leave the foraging lane'
<U+F0E8> We accepted and adapted it.
(16) p. 43, l. 5-9 Fig 9 looks like a methods figure and might be better as Fig. 2. Suggest to
simplify 'To analyse the endpoint etc ' 'We defined the end point of an ant's trajectory on the
turn-table by two angles: first, the angle between the line from the end point to the centre of
the turn-table and the nest feeder axis (Fig. 2A) and second the angle between this line and
the pheromone (Fig. 2B). We also noted the direction of a foraging lane when an ant makes
a U-turn after travelling at least one fourth of the lane. Phi denotes the mean of the
distribution of these three kinds of angles for an experiment and r is the scatter of the
distribution.'
<U+F0E8> We agree with these two suggestions:
1) We rearranged the figures in a new order as follows:
<U+F0A7> Fig. 1: (not rearranged)
<U+F0A7> Fig. 2: Schematic diagram for the definition of angle relative to the
feeder-nest axis and the pheromone lane and sinuosity
<U+F0A7> Figs. 3~8: The apparatus and results
<U+F0A7> Fig. 9: Typical trajectories
<U+F0A7> Fig. 10~11: (not rearranged)
2) We modified the sentence as follows:
(P.5 L.6-) We defined the end point of an ant’s trajectory on the turntable by two
angles; first, the angle between the line from the end point to the centre of the
turntable and the nest-feeder axis (Fig. 2a) and second the angle between this line
and the pheromone lane (Fig. 2b). We also noted the direction of a foraging lane
when an ant made a U-turn after travelling at least one fourth of the lane. The
angle f denotes the mean of the distribution of these three kinds of angles for an
experiment and r is the scatter of the distribution.
(17) p. 43, line 19 'path length' rather than stream length. The divisor in Fig 9c is the path length
which seems to be inconsistent with what you write here?
<U+F0E8> We agree it was ‘path length’ rather than ‘stream length’ so replaced.
(18) p. 43 lines 23 to 28. Might be simpler and avoid repetition to make these points when
describing the results of the first experiment and then say the remaining experiments are
presented in a similar way.
<U+F0E8> Considering this comment the explanation for Fig. 11 is not needed here, so we cut this
sentence.
(19) p. 43 line 31-32. 'Fig 3B shows the same for EXP 1-2 when the turntable was kept
stationary'
<U+F0E8> We accepted and replaced with it.
(20) p. 43 line 36. Suggest that you finish with describing Fig 2B and the rotating table before
mentioning what happens with the stationary table
<U+F0E8> We agree with this suggestion. We found that the sentence ‘When the disk was
stationary the ants traversed the whole length of the pheromone trail to reach the nest.’
was not needed because the same thing was mentioned after, and removed it.
(21) p 44, l. 2-11. be better not to have a new paragraph here 'The density distributions of the
ants' positions during each third of the raw trajectories are plotted in the bottom row of Fig
2B and make the same point, as does Fig. 11, in which the trajectories are divided into two
halves according to their duration. In contrast, the corresponding plots of the ants' paths
when the table was stationary (Fig. 3B, Fig. 11) show that the ants walked from the feeder
end to the nest end of the pheromone lane with no U-turns'
<U+F0E8> We accepted this suggestion and moved these sentences to the paragraph just before.
(22) p. 44 line 15 'and they differed significantly'. Say from what they differed significantly. You've
already said the distribution is not random.
<U+F0E8> Your point is correct and we apologize for this statement as a mistake. We removed it.
(23) p. 44, l. 16. This would be clearer if you added to Figs 2A and 3A the labels '180 deg' to the
nest side of the panel and '0 deg' to the right side. Should it be Fig 3C and not 2C since you
are talking about expt 1.2?
<U+F0E8> We agree these two suggestions:
1) We added the labels to Figs 3a, 4a, 5a, 6a, 7a and 8a. Here’s Fig 3a as an example:
Fig. 3a
In the same time, it’s much better to commonalize the 0 degree point as the feeder side,
so we modified the 0 degree side in the turning point such as follows.
Fig. 3d
2) As you pointed, this sentence seemed to mention about Fig. 3c as a reference for
EXP 1-2. So we added a statement as follow:
In addition, the histogram in Fig. 3c shows that in EXP1-1, the end point angles relative
togiven by the foraging lane are distributed around 0°, whereas in Fig. 4c shows that in
EXP 1-2 they are distributed around 180°.
(24) p. 44, l. 21- 22 suggest you say 'more often on the rotating table than on the stationary table.
In Fig 2D the occurrence of U-turns is plotted relative to the direction of the pheromone lane.
This rose diagram indicates that ants tended to make U-turns when the pheromone lane
was perpendicular to the feeder nest direction (phi =). (Fig 2D ). ' I don't think that you need
the next sentence in which you describe the rose diagram.
<U+F0E8> We completely agree this suggestion, and adapted it as follows:
(P.6 L.10-) Thus, the ants completed U-turns more often on the rotating table than
on the stationary table. In Fig. 3d the occurrence of U-turns is plotted relative to
the direction of the pheromone lane. This rose diagram indicates that ants tended
to make U-turns when the pheromone lane was perpendicular to the feeder nest
direction (f = 98.7°, r = 0.867, p < 0.0001) (Fig. 3d). This result indicates that each
ant changed direction when the lane was rotated approximately 90°.
(25) p. 45, l. 2-12 'end point angles relative to the panorama are broadly distributed towards the
nest side (phi= 155....), while the end point angles of the pheromone lane are very roughly
perpendicular to the feeder-nest axis (phi = 118), differing significantly from the distributions
of Expts 1.1 and 1.2. Very few U turns were made (Fig 4D) and all three occurred when the
pheromone lane had rotated through more than 90 degs. It can be seen in Fig 2B that some
ants left the pheromone trail and approached the nest (Fig. 8). These results show that ants
can respond to visual cues and ignore the pheromone trail when the panorama moves
slowly.'
<U+F0E8> We completely agree this suggestion, and adapted it as follows:
(P.6 L.24-) The rose diagram in Fig. 5c shows that the end point angles relative to
the panorama are broadly distributed towards the nest side (f = 155°, r = 0.408, p
= 0.00579), while the end point angles of the pheromone lane are very roughly
perpendicular to the feeder-nest axis (f = 118°, r = 0.426, p < 0.0036), differing
significantly from the distributions of EXPs 1-1 and 1-2. Very few U -turns were
made (Fig. 5d) and all three occurred when the pheromone lane had rotated
through more than 90 degrees. It can be seen in Fig. 5b that some ants left the
pheromone trail and approached the nest (Fig. 9). These results show that ants
can respond to visual cues and ignore the pheromone trail when the panorama
moves slowly (Movie ESM3).
(26) p. 45, l. l4-17. First and second sentences say almost the same thing and the 2nd is simpler.
I suggest that you delete the first sentence and start. 'In EXP 3 the turntable rotated at 3 rpm
within a uniform white drum (Fig. 5a)...........'
<U+F0E8> We found that the way you suggested was much clear, so adapted it in this part as
follows:
(P.6 L.35-) In EXP 3 the turntable rotated at 3 r/min within a uniform white drum
(Fig. 6a), so that the rotation would not generate any visual input. The trajectories
of each 60° rotation are shown in Fig. 6b, and the first and the second half of the
trajectories are shown in Fig. 11 (EXP 3).
(27) p. 45, l. 19 replace by 'gradually moved across the whole table following the pheromone trail.
The rose....'
<U+F0E8> We accepted and replaced.
(28) p. 45, l. 20 suggest replace by 'the endpoint angles relative to the panorama are distributed
broadly on the feeder side (phi =.......).
<U+F0E8> We accepted and replaced as follows:
(P.7 L.3-) The rose diagram in Fig. 6c shows that the end point angles relative to
the panorama are distributed broadly on the feeder side (f = 158°, r = 0.420, p =
0.00507).
(29) p. 45, l. 22-33 suggest change to 'endpoint angles relative to the pheromone trail are
distributed tightly on the nest side (phi=..........).
<U+F0E8> We accepted and replaced as follows:
(P.7 L.4-) The histogram in Fig. 6c shows that the end point angles relative to the
pheromone trail are distributed tightly on the nest side (f = 172°, r = 0.786, p <
0.0001), and they significantly differed from EXP 1-1 (p < 0.0001).
(30) p. 45 l. 24. suggest replace by 'U-turns were infrequent (in 9 out of 29 paths) suggesting that
U-turns do not occur without a visual scene that rotates relative to the pheromone trail
(Movie ).'
Expt 4. Might be simpler for a reader if you describe first the results with a coated bridge and
then separately the results with an uncoated bridge. The end with the conclusion that you
reach from the comparison.
<U+F0E8> We accepted and replaced as follows:
(P.7 L.8-) U-turns were infrequent (in 9 out of 29 paths) suggesting that U-turns do
not occur without a visual scene that rotates relative to the pheromone trail (Movie
ESM4).
(31) p. 46, l. 29. suggest change to 'maze-like trails, ants follow foraging routes and successfully
return to their nest [24,25]
<U+F0E8> We accepted and replaced.
(32) p. 46, l. 35. As mentioned before ants can learn return routes on outward trips ref [5]. Can
you be sure there was no memory involved? p 46 lines 12-21 - prior knowledge sounds like
a memory effect.
<U+F0E8> We agree that this point is completely correct. With this statement, we aimed to
mention about the colony hadn’t an opportunity to learn the location of the nest relative
to the room cues before the experiments began, as we mentioned in ‘Materials and
Methods’ section. Thus, we replace ‘no memory effect’ with ‘no interactive learning
effect’.
(33) p 46, l. 36- p 47 line 4. I find this paragraph hard to understand What do you mean by the
motor input effect? And I'm not sure that the optomotor reflex is cancelled. When the table
rotates clockwise in a stationary panorama the trajectories tend to be pushed to the side of
the pheromone trail that is in the direction of visual image motion. It is as though they are
trying to express an optomotor response within the constraints of the pheromone lane.
When the white cylinder rotates with the table, the ants paths are distributed more equally
over the lane.
<U+F0E8> We’d like to answer to these two points:
1) the motor input effect:
We mean it as vibration or centrifugal force. We found that to explain that it’s better to
compare EXP 1-2 and EXP 3 instead of EXP 1-2 and EXP 3. Thus we replaced this
statement by the followings:
(P.8 L.20-) Therefore, there was no motor input (vibrations or centrifugal force)
effect in navigation [34] could be estimated by comparing the results of EXP 1-21
and EXP 3. With the pheromone trail and stationary panorama view ants tended to
go straight, even if they were given motor input (EXP 3) or not (EXP 1-2).
2) cancelling the optomotor reflex
As you pointed there’s no evidence for cancelling the optomotor reflex. What we could
say is that the ants reacted to the rotating panorama view. Thus we replaced the
statement by the following:
(P.8 L.23-) Our results also suggests that ants are able to react to cancel this
rotational optic flow so as to be enable to match the visual panorama whether it
rotates (EXP 1-1) or not (EXP 1-2).
(34) p. 47, l. 22-25. I'm not sure about the argument in this paragraph - you could just delete it. It
seems to me that in Exp 3 there are essentially no familiar visual cues for the ants to use
and all they have for guidance is the pheromone lane which they follow. Had you used the a
photo of the real visual panorama fixed to the table but oriented 180 degs from the natural
case, the ants would probably have either remained still or made a U-turn early on.
<U+F0E8> We accepted this comment and delete it.
(35) p. 47, l. 28 'effect' rather than 'affect'
<U+F0E8> We accepted this suggestion and replaced 'affect' with 'effect'.
(36) p. 47, l. 32 'did not' rather than 'could not'
<U+F0E8> We accepted this suggestion and replaced 'affect' with 'effect'. As you commented, we
didn’t get the proof weather the ants could or could not that.
(37) p. 48, l. 5-9 Talking about the right and left sides of a rotating disk leads to some confusion.
Better say something like: 'ants walked from the feeder end of the lane......from the centre
back to the feeder end of the lane which had now rotated to face the nest.' In control
experiments, when the turntable was stationary or moved slowly relative to the visual
surroundings, ants tended to walk from the feeder end of the pheromone lane all the way to
the other end.'
<U+F0E8> We agree with this suggestion and modified as follows:
(P.9 L.28-) This implies that in Fig. 11, ants walked from the feeder end of the lane
towards the centre of the lane in the first half and from the centre to back to the
feeder end of the lane which had now rotated to face the nest. In control
experiments, when the turntable was stationary or moved slowly relative to the
visual surroundings, ants tended to walk from the feeder end of the pheromone
lane all the way to the other end.
To Reviewer: 4
We acknowledge Dr. Miguel A. Rodríguez-Gironés’s positive estimation to our paper, and we
appreciate your detailed and concrete comments. We accepted your comments and revised our
manuscript in following your comments.
Please let us to note at first that the figure numbers are rearranged in this revision as reflecting
the comment from reviewer 1.
Main points:
1. Because there were confusing expressions in our paper, we replaced them along with his
suggestions to make it easier to follow.
Especially, so as to express the ‘end point’ of the ants’ trajectories in two ways, we replaced
the names as the reviewer suggested.
(The detail of this point is explained in following ‘Each response’ (2).)
2. In the discussion part we had some statement which over the fact. Thus we modified them
as agreeing his points.
(Please see also following ‘Each response’ (17)~(19).)
Each response:
(1) Page 43, line 1. I had to struggle for quite a while before I understood what reference frame
the authors had used to describe trajectories. This isn’t explained in the methods, and the
only explanation we get, in the legend to figure 2, is that “The trajectories are shown on the
disk as though the disk had not rotated.” The method section should explain what the
trajectories represent. I suggest saying something like: “in figures 2-9 and 11, trajectories
are given relative to the rotating disk, so that the right-hand-side of the circle represents the
region near the feeder end of the foraging lane.
<U+F0E8> We agree this suggestion and we replaces as follows:
(P.5 L.1-) In figures 3–9, trajectories are given relative to the rotating disk, so that
the right-hand-side of the circle represents the region near the feeder end of the
foraging lane.
(2) Page 43, lines 6-8: rather than referring to “the angle given by the panorama” or “the angle
given by the pheromone”, it would be clearer if the authors wrote about “the angle relative to
the feeder-nest axis” and “the angle relative to the rotating pheromone trail”, specifying that
angles are measured clockwise, with 0º corresponding to the feeder side.
<U+F0E8> That’s much better and we replace them all over this paper including the figures, as
follows:
<U+F0A7> in the sentence:
the angle given by the panorama -> the angle relative to the feeder-nest axis
the angle given by the panorama -> the angle relative to the rotating pheromone
trail
<U+F0A7> the figure example:
Fig. 3c
(3) Page 43, lines 8-10: the authors refer to an orientation vector and a mean orientation vector.
One expects the mean orientation vector to be the average value of the orientation vector,
but they are not related: the orientation vector refers to the point where ants leave the
turntable, the mean orientation vector refers to the point where they turn around. This is
confusing. Please give different names to each vector and keep in mind that, for each type,
you have individual vectors and mean vectors. Make sure that the angle phi and length r
refer always to the U-turn vector – I suspect that, in the results sections, some of your phi
and r values may refer to the exit vector (but I haven’t checked it).
<U+F0E8> We agree your point. As reflecting the comment from reviewer 1, we replaced this part
by the following, then we succeeded to avoid the confusing.
(P.5 L.6-) We defined the end point of an ant’s trajectory on the turntable by two
angles; first, the angle between the line from the end point to the centre of the
turntable and the nest-feeder axis (Fig. 2a) and second the angle between this line
and the pheromone lane (Fig. 2b). We also noted the direction of a foraging lane
when an ant made a U-turn after travelling at least one fourth of the lane. The
angle f denotes the mean of the distribution of these three kinds of angles for an
experiment and r is the scatter of the distribution.
(4) Pg. 43, line 13: what do you mean with “starting side relative to the stage”? Is this the
“feeder end of the foraging lane”?
<U+F0E8> We meant “feeder end of the foraging lane”.
As accepting reviewer 1’s suggestion, this statement is replaced as follows:
(P.5 L.9-) We also noted the direction of a foraging lane when an ant made a
U-turn after travelling at least one fourth of the lane. The angle f denotes the
mean of the distribution of these three kinds of angles for an experiment and r is
the scatter of the distribution.
(5) Pg. 43, line 16: deviation from what?
<U+F0E8> We meant deviation among some experiments (for example EXP 1-1 and 1-2). As you
point, we found that that’s need to mention and modified as follows:
(P.5 L.13) A binominal analysis was used to determine the deviation of the
distribution of the U-turn among some experiments, and (…).
(6) Pg. 43, line 17: valuables -> variables
<U+F0E8> We corrected the Typo.
(7) Pg. 43, line 17: condition type -> experimental condition? Treatment?
<U+F0E8> We meant experiment condition, thus we added it as follows:
(P.5 L.14-) (…), and a Fisher’s exact analysis was used for the non-random
association between two categorical variables, the experimental condition type
and the number of U-turns (both analyses were two-tailed).
(8) Pg. 43, lines 19-20: the definition of sinuosity here does not agree with the one of figure 1.
Make sure that you use the same definition, that you explain all the terms (stream length
and lane-axial length) and that you explain what is the “meaning” of sinuosity. Why is
sinuosity important? What does it indicate?
<U+F0E8> Sinuosity indicates how straight the ants went. If ants went straight sinuosity went low,
otherwise it went high. Sinuosity is needed to express the ants’ trajectories
quantitatively. We count the number of U-turn in each experience, but that’s not
enough to explain the tendency of the trajectories. ‘U-turn’ means to go straight (= low
sinuosity) and make a turn (= high sinuosity) and then go straight (= low sinuosity)
again. We could express that in Fig. 10.
We replaced ‘stream length’ with ‘path length’, as accepting the comment from
reviewer 1.
And we agree your suggestion that we should explain the terms and what is the
‘meaning’, so we added it in the figure captions as follows:
(P.16 L.2-) For each trajectory, sinuosity is calculated as the pathstream length
over the lane-axial length of each 60° rotation (See Fig. 2c), where the path length
is the whole length of the trajectory, and the lane-axial length is the distance
between the tangent line to turntable perpendicular to the lane-axial and the
farthest point of the trajectory from it. The graph shows the mean value among
each experiment.
(9) Pg. 43, lines 24-25 (and elsewhere throughout the paper): referring to the density
distribution against the angle given by the panorama/pheromone lane is confusing. Use the
names suggested above (lines 6-8) or something like that.
<U+F0E8> As mention above (2), we agree with your suggestion and replaced the expressions.
(10) Pg. 43, line 26: it would be useful if you explained from this point that figure 11 essentially
summarises figures 2b-7b, and that the only difference is that, in figure 11, you code
trajectories in two colours (first half vs. second half), while in figures 2-7 they are coded in
three colours, each colour corresponding to one angle of the foraging lane relative to the
nest-feeder axis.
<U+F0E8> We deleted this sentence as considering the comment reviewer 1.
And we agree with this suggestion then switched red and blue in Fig. 11 as follows:
Fig.11
(11) Pg. 44, second paragraph: you write about figure 2 as if it had data from experiment 1.2.
Specify that you are comparing figures 2 and 3.
<U+F0E8> We agree with this suggestion and modified it as follows:
(P.6 L.4-) In addition, the histogram in Fig. 3c shows that in EXP1-1, the end point
angles relative to the foraging lane are distributed around 0°, whereas in Fig. 4c
shows that in EXP 1-2 they are distributed around 180°.
(12) Pg. 44, lines 30-31: it is not true that ants NEVER left the pheromone trail.
<U+F0E8> We agree and modified as follows:
(P.6 L.16-) These results show that the ants changed their direction depending on
the panoramic views, whereas they tend not to leavedo not left the pheromone
lane. (Movies ESM1 and ESM2), (…).
(13) Pg. 45, lines 2-3: here and in several other places, you claim that “the end point angles
given by the panorama in EXP 2 tend to be randomly distributed” and support this claim with
a p < 0.05. I always thought that p < 0.05 implied lack of randomness. What am I missing?
<U+F0E8> We apologize for this statement as a mistake. We removed it.
(14) Pg. 45, lines 3-4: “the end point angles given by the pheromone lane are distributed at 90º”
– but in the figure what I see is a sharp peak at 180º. Am I looking to the wrong figure, or am
I not understanding the figures? If I am missing something, other readers might get
confused as well. Please clarify.
<U+F0E8> As reflecting the comment from reviewers 1, this part is replaced by the following:
(P.6 L.6-) Very few U -turns were made (Fig. 5d) and all three occurred when the
pheromone lane had rotated through more than 90 degrees. It can be seen in Fig.
5b that some ants left the pheromone trail and approached the nest (Fig. 9). These
results show that ants can respond to visual cues and ignore the pheromone trail
when the panorama moves slowly.
(15) Pg. 45, line 35: “(Fig and ended…” probably means (Fig X) and ended…
<U+F0E8> We apologize for the missing, we corrected as follows:
(P.7 L.6-) Thus, they returned to the start of the pheromone trail (Fig. 7b, left) and
ended up on the nest side (Fig. 7c).
(16) Pg. 46, lines 5-6: how many ants turned around? (Data missing in figure.) Fig. 7d suggests
that there were only 5 U turns, while the histogram in Fig. 7c suggests that at least 3/4 of the
ants ended up on the feeder side of the bridge. How could so many ants end up on the
“feeder side” of the bridge without turning around?
<U+F0E8> Your point is correct, it’s 5 U-turns. We apologize for this missing, too. We corrected Fig.
8c.
We defined ‘U-turn’ as follows:
(P.5 L.9-) We also noted the direction of a foraging lane when an ant made a
U-turn after travelling at least one fourth of the lane.
Meanwhile, in EXP 4-2 the ants tend to make the first turn without travelling at least one
fourth of the lane. Thus they weren’t counted as a U-turn.
(17) Pg. 47, lines 5-6: “The pheromone trail has no polarity, therefore EXP 1-1 never showed the
conflict between the pheromone trail and the visual cues…” I know that this sentence was
included in response to a comment from a reviewer of the original version… Still, I don’t
agree. The fact that the trail has no polarity does not imply that there is no conflict between
the pheromone trail and visual cues. The trail indicates a travel direction (without specifying
in which way the direction must be travelled). If this direction does not lead to the goal, as
specified by the visual cues, no matter in which sense we travel, then we are in trouble and
there is a conflict between the trail and the visual cues. This is why some ants left the trail, in
the slow rotation experiment: because it was the only way to reach the nest.
<U+F0E8> We completely agree with your point, ‘The fact that the trail has no polarity does not
imply that there is no conflict between the pheromone trail and visual cues.’ Here, what
we want mention about is that ants get the conflict between the pheromone trail and
there visual memory cue, rather than whether EXP 1-1 itself showed the conflict or not.
Thus we replace this statement by the following:
(P.8 L.28-) Since the pheromone trail has no polarity, in EXP1-1 the ants could get
the conflict between the pheromone trail and the visual cues, when they use prior
knowledge on homing direction and present visual cues.
(18) Pg. 47, lines 7-9: “The ants followed the pheromone trail and walked straight because the
prior visual cues (i.e. visual cues when the turntable stopped) showed the nest in front of the
ant.” In Exp 1-1, this statement is only correct for a very short time. As soon as the table
rotates, the nest moves from the front to the side of the ant. Ants turn around, roughly, when
the nest is slightly behind them.
<U+F0E8> As you pointed, ants face to the nest in dead front of them for a very short time from at
the beginning of the trial. And we replaced ‘in front of them’ with ‘in front side of them’.
Then totally we modified this part as follows:
(P.8 L.30-) At the beginning of the trials the ants followed the pheromone trail and
walked straight because the prior visual cues (i.e. visual cues when the turntable
stopped) showed the nest in front side of the ant. Our experiments show that the
ants followed the pheromone trail with the help of visual cues.
(19) Pg. 47, lines 13-15: “This suggests that there could be a threshold value for the angle
between the lane and the feeder-nest axis below which the ant can identify the conflict
between the prior knowledge and the visual cues.” A threshold angle or a threshold
distance? The existence of a threshold angle is demonstrated in experiment 1-1: when the
bearing t the nest is greater than 90º (nest slightly behind the ant), ants turn around. In this
experiment, it seems that if the distance to the nest is close enough, the ants recognise it
and go straight to the entrance, leaving the trail.
<U+F0E8> We meant a threshold angle. As you pointed it’s not clear, thus we added it.
Considering your comment, in this revision we counted the number of the ants which
finished its trajectory in the pheromone trail, that is, the end point angle relative to the
rotating pheromone trail is 0~5.71º (=arctan(1.5cm/15cm)). (Here, let us note that the
diameter of the turntable is 30cm, and width of the pheromone trail is 3cm.)
Then in EXP1-1 and EXP2, they were 21/30 and 14/30. With this result, we replaced
this discussion to reflect your comment as follows:
(P.9 L.36-) If the lane rotated very slowly at 1 r/min, some ants left the pheromone
trail and directly approached the nest independent of the pheromone trail (Figs. 5
and 9). Regarding the end point angles relative to the rotating pheromone trail, the
numbers of the ant which finished its trajectory in the pheromone trail were in 21
out of 30 paths in EXP 1-1, and in 14 out of 30 paths in EXP 2. This result shows in
EXP 2 much more ants leave the pheromone trail than in EXP 1. Therefore there
could be a threshold angle value for the angle between the lane and the
feeder-nest axis below which the ant can identify the conflict between the prior
knowledge and the visual cues.
Society Open
