Building information modelling review with potential
applications in tunnel engineering of China
Weihong Zhou, Haiyang Qin, Junling Qiu, Haobo Fan, Jinxing Lai, Ke Wang and Lixin
Wang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170174.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170174
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 June 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 29 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170174.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Zhushan Shao)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The topic is interesting and the paper is well organized, however, some key issues are not clearly
or defects are existed in current manuscript, attached please find the details. (Appendix A.)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Henry Abanda)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper addresses a very important issue-that of BIM applied on tunnel engineering. The paper
is fairly written and can be understood. However, these weaknesses needs to be improved for
the paper to accepted for publication.
1. A methodology section must be included. This can be ½ of a page
2. Grammar
The English needs to be significantly improved. See examples of very good facts but the English
is so poor that the intended meaning is lost.
Later, Jerry, et al. supplemented and standardized the conception and popularized BIM theory.
In the end of 2008, BSA had obtained a series of application standards, including IFC (Industry
Foundation Classes) standard, NBIMS, United States National CAD Standard, and Journal of
Building Information Modeling (JBIM) standard [4].
Relatively, BIM technology commences in China later [12].
In recent years, the BIM has gradually been known by the civil engineering [13].
The informatization of tunnel engineering level, however, is still lower in China. Although
manual drawing is replaced by computer-aided design and the efficiency of tunnel engineering
design has been improved greatly, it is still a mode of scattered resource management, which is
significantly different from the concentrated resource management mode of BIM [18].
3
There are more obstacles existed in the implementation of BIM technology-based tunnel
engineering. As previous BIM software platform caters to design of construction industry and is
not coupled with tunnel engineering standard and software, BIM technology for construction
industry cannot be directly applied in tunnel industry.
The second one is different characteristics of main structure. BIM technology-based tunnel
engineering faces more challenges [33-35]. However, the advantages of BIM technology are more
obvious since tunnel engineering is confronted with difficult problems, which including
unknown factors, longer construction cycle, narrow construction space, higher requirements for
operation and maintenance, and more serious consequence of fire and traffic accidents [36-37].
Apropos of fire accidents with more serious consequence, the interactive operation between BIM
technology and serious game platform can be applied to address the shortage of data collection of
existing simulation method in observing personal escape behavior in tunnel fire [38].
Apropos is odd here! Please think of an alternative word. Do the same for apropos in other places
of this manuscript
3D geologic model is created and combined with geologic information.
What is geologic???? Should this not be geological model?
3. Abbreviations
Authors should provide full-meaning of words on first use. E.g. CAD, PRC
4. Numbering
Number of paragraphs is really odd and should be removed. For example all the numbering of
paragraphs in section 6 should be removed.
Henry ABANDA
Email: fabanda@brookes.ac.uk
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170174)
07-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Qiu
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170174 entitled
"Building information modeling review with potential applications in tunnel engineering of
China" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision
in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email. Please note that the Editors recommend that you send the paper to a native speaker of
English or a language polishing service prior to resubmitting.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170174
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Jun-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
5
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
I recommend acceptance subject to minor revisions to address the reviewer questions, comments
and suggestions.
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
The english writing is poor in places, but I am able to understand what they are conveying.
Therefore, I recommend it be sent for review.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
6
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The topic is interesting and the paper is well organized, however, some key issues are not clearly
or defects are existed in current manuscript, attached please find the details.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The paper addresses a very important issue-that of BIM applied on tunnel engineering. The paper
is fairly written and can be understood. However, these weaknesses needs to be improved for
the paper to accepted for publication.
1. A methodology section must be included. This can be ½ of a page
2. Grammar
The English needs to be significantly improved. See examples of very good facts but the English
is so poor that the intended meaning is lost.
Later, Jerry, et al. supplemented and standardized the conception and popularized BIM theory.
In the end of 2008, BSA had obtained a series of application standards, including IFC (Industry
Foundation Classes) standard, NBIMS, United States National CAD Standard, and Journal of
Building Information Modeling (JBIM) standard [4].
Relatively, BIM technology commences in China later [12].
In recent years, the BIM has gradually been known by the civil engineering [13].
The informatization of tunnel engineering level, however, is still lower in China. Although
manual drawing is replaced by computer-aided design and the efficiency of tunnel engineering
design has been improved greatly, it is still a mode of scattered resource management, which is
significantly different from the concentrated resource management mode of BIM [18].
There are more obstacles existed in the implementation of BIM technology-based tunnel
engineering. As previous BIM software platform caters to design of construction industry and is
not coupled with tunnel engineering standard and software, BIM technology for construction
industry cannot be directly applied in tunnel industry.
The second one is different characteristics of main structure. BIM technology-based tunnel
engineering faces more challenges [33-35]. However, the advantages of BIM technology are more
obvious since tunnel engineering is confronted with difficult problems, which including
unknown factors, longer construction cycle, narrow construction space, higher requirements for
operation and maintenance, and more serious consequence of fire and traffic accidents [36-37].
Apropos of fire accidents with more serious consequence, the interactive operation between BIM
technology and serious game platform can be applied to address the shortage of data collection of
existing simulation method in observing personal escape behavior in tunnel fire [38].
Apropos is odd here! Please think of an alternative word. Do the same for apropos in other places
of this manuscript
3D geologic model is created and combined with geologic information.
What is geologic???? Should this not be geological model?
3. Abbreviations
Authors should provide full-meaning of words on first use. E.g. CAD, PRC
4. Numbering
Number of paragraphs is really odd and should be removed. For example all the numbering of
paragraphs in section 6 should be removed.
Henry ABANDA
Email: fabanda@brookes.ac.uk
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170174)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170174.R1)
29-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Qiu,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Building information modeling review
with potential applications in tunnel engineering of China" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHOR:
The paper demonstrated the review of the application of building information
modeling (BIM) through the related research results and engineering cases,
which can provide comprehensive experience for construction of relevant
engineering.The topic is interesting and the paper is well organized, however,
some key issues are not clearly or defects are existed in current manuscript,
details as follow:
1. What restrict the stage of BIM application during the whole project process?
For example, as authors mentioned in manuscript, the BIM model cannot be
applied in the whole process because of the incompatibility problem generated
by the standard of different software. Then, how the BIM was used in the all
stages in the Xingu mountain tunnel? A detailed explaination should be made
for the proper circumstances of BIM application during the whole project
process.
2.Page 10, a suggestion should be added for the combination system of BIM
and 3D or 4D visualized model based on the Shigu mountain tunnel.
3. Page 11-12, conclusion (2) and (3) actually focused on the same aspects of
BIM development in China, the problems and challenges. For example, BIM
application in tunnel engineering is mostly used in design stage due to many
reasons, which relating to the problems mentioned in conclusion (3).
4. Page 12, the sequence of conclusion should be adjusted. Conclusion (1)
and (4) are all about the advantages of BIM application, conclusion (2) and (3)
are focused on the problems.
5. Page 3, line 48-49. The second obstacles, the different characteristics of
main structure, should be explained more detailed.
6. Some comments on the grammars and further modification should be made
before accepted, such as following:
Page 1, line 49, guide for;
Page 3, line 29, sentence structure;
Page 3, line 44-46, sentence structure;
Page 4, line 24-30, the sentence is too long, proper punctuate is needed.
Page 5, line 18, the word “and” should be modified to “which” for the correct
grammar structure;
Page5, line 51, lays;
Page 9, line 9, it is of profound significance;
Page 9, line 49, grammar mistake;
Page 11, line 19, wastes efforts;
Appendix B
Dear Andrew Dunn,
Thank you for your kind consideration on our manuscript entitled “Building information
modeling review with potential applications in tunnel engineering of China”
label_version_2
RSOS-170174). We have revised our manuscript after reading the comments provided by the
eviewers, and we have sent it to a native speaker of English to be polished prior to this
esubmitting. The certificate of language editing has been uploaded as a separated file
Electronic supplementary material). Those critical comments and suggestions are valuable
and helpful for revising and improving our paper, as well as the importance guiding
significance to our researches. Please do forward our heartfelt thanks to you and the reviewers.
We have studied comments carefully and have made some corrections which we hope meet
with approval.
A point-to-point response was provided in the following pages. All changes were marked in
ed text. We hope that those changes lead to the acceptance of the manuscript, and look
orward to hearing from you for any further consideration.
All in all, we sincerely show thanks for your consideration and good comments provided
by the reviewers, and if you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.
Have a nice day!
Sincerely yours,
Junling Qiu, et al.
School of Highway
Chang’an University
Tel.: 15249211830
E-mail: 870133597 @qq.com/ Laijinxing@chd.edu.cn
Responses to the Comments of the Reviewers
The authors would like to thank the suggestive comments from the reviewers, which are
very helpful to guide the authors’ rework on the manuscript, and the responses to these
comments are listed as follows:
Reviewers' comments:
Reviewer #1:
1) What restrict the stage of BIM application during the whole project process? For example, as
authors mentioned in manuscript, the BIM model cannot be applied in the whole process because of
he incompatibility problem generated by the standard of different software. Then, how the BIM was
used in the all stages in the Xingu mountain tunnel? A detailed explanation should be made for the
proper circumstances of BIM application during the whole project process.
Response:
ncompatibility between different software mainly restricts the application of BIM in tunnel
engineering. It is difficult to communicate effectively between different software platforms because of
his problem. There is still not professional software for BIM in tunnel engineering in China. In this
case of Xingu mountain tunnel, CATIA software was applied to try to build up the BIM model, and the
esult proved that CATIA software could roughly meet the requirements of BIM in the whole period in
unnel engineering. But because CATIA software is mainly aimed at mechanical and aerospace field,
and it is not professional in tunnel field, so there are still many defects and big gap to be improved,
uch as the low quality in detailed design.
We sincerely show thanks for the comment provided by the reviewer. We have ignored this
problem in the manuscript submitted last time. After carefully checking, we have added the related
nformation to the revised manuscript, as shown in Fig. 1-1.
Fig. 1-1
2) Page 10, a suggestion should be added for the combination system of BIM and 3D or 4D
visualized model based on the Shigu mountain tunnel.
Response:
We sincerely show thanks for the comment provided by the reviewer. We have added relative
nformation to the corresponding location in the revised manuscript, as shown in Fig. 2-1.
Fig. 2-1
The responses towards both (3) and (4) below are arranged together.
3) Page 11-12, conclusion (2) and (3) actually focused on the same aspects of BIM development in
China, the problems and challenges. For example, BIM application in tunnel engineering is mostly
used in design stage due to many reasons, which relating to the problems mentioned in conclusion (3).
4) Page 12, the sequence of conclusion should be adjusted. Conclusion (1) and (4) are all about the
advantages of BIM application, conclusion (2) and (3) are focused on the problems.
Response:
After carefully checking, we have made some corrections according to the reviewer’s valuable
and helpful comments, as shown in Fig. 3-1.
Fig. 3-1
5). Page 3, line 48-49. The second obstacles, the different characteristics of main structure, should be
explained more detailed.
Response:
After carefully checking, we have described different characteristics between architecture and
unnel in more details according to the reviewer’s valuable and helpful comments, as shown in Fig.
4-1.
Fig. 4-1
6). Comments on the grammars and further modification should be made.
Response:
We sincerely show thanks for the comments on grammar mistakes provided by the reviewer, and
we have sent this manuscript to a native speaker of English to be polished prior to this
esubmitting. After carefully checking, many corrections have been made according to the reviewer’s
valuable and helpful comments. All the modifications have been marked in red text in revised
manuscript.
Reviewer #2:
1) A methodology section must be included. This can be ½ of a page.
Response:
We sincerely show thanks for the comment about methodology section provided by the reviewer. We
have added this information to the revised manuscript, as shown in Fig. 5-1.
Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
Fig. 5-1
2) Authors should provide full-meaning of words on first use. E.g. CAD, PRC
Response:
After carefully checking, full-meaning of words on first use is added to the corresponding location.
Such as ' computer-aided design ' for' CAD', and ' The People's Republic of China ' for ' CAD' .
3)Number of paragraphs is really odd and should be removed. For example, all the numbering of
paragraphs in section 6 should be removed.
Response:
After carefully checking, the odd and unnecessary number of paragraph is removed in the revised
manuscript, as shown in Fig. 6-1.
Fig. 6-1
4). Comments on the grammars and further modification should be made.
Response:
We sincerely show thanks for the comments on grammar mistakes provided by the reviewer, and
we have sent this manuscript to a native speaker of English to be polished prior to this
esubmitting. After carefully checking, many corrections have been made according to the reviewer’s
valuable and helpful comments. All the modifications have been marked in red text in revised
manuscript.
Society Open
