Eaten alive: cannibalism is enhanced by parasites
Mandy Bunke, Mhairi E. Alexander , Jaimie T. A. Dick, Melanie J. Hatcher, Rachel
Paterson and Alison M. Dunn
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140369.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140369
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 February 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: The article was transfered from another Royal Society journal following peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140369.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Joseph Ironside)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript provides an interesting addition to the existing body of work on cannibalism
and parasitism in G. d. celticus. The apparent ability of G. d. celticus adults to distinguish
between infected and uninfected conspecifics when deciding which to cannibalise is particularly
interesting and may also influence other behaviours.
I have the following minor comments:
p3, lines 95-96: P. mulleri is not specific to freshwater populations of G. d. celticus. It also occurs
in populations of G. d. duebeni in brackish water (see Ironside et al (2008) J. Eukaryot. Microbiol.,
55(4), pp. 355–362).
Figure 2: it would be more informative to display this data as single bars, showing the proportion
of infected individuals chosen, with error bars displaying 95% binomial confidence intervals.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (David Pfennig)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This study empirically evaluated whether infection by a microsporidian parasite impacts the rate
of cannibalism in its amphipod host. The authors found that parasitism increased the rate of
cannibalism of juveniles by infected adults. They further found that UNinfected adults preferred
to cannibalize uninfected as opposed to infected juveniles, but that infected adults showed no
such preference.
In terms of positives, the study system is an interesting one, and understanding the factors that
influence the rates of cannibalism remains an important question in evolutionary ecology.
In terms of negatives:
3
(1) Details of the study system are lacking. For example, how common is cannibalism in
naturally occurring populations of this species?
(2) Details of the Methods are also lacking. Specifically:
- why were males (not females) used as the focal cannibals?
- did the parasite loads of the infected individuals (either adult males are juveniles) vary widely?
- did the densities for the FR experiments correspond to densities in the wild?
- are naturally occurring individuals likely to have a choice between eating parasitized and
unparasitized individuals (i.e., do both occur in close proximity)?
(3) Related to the previous point, the authors infer that all deaths of their juvenile victims were
due to cannibalism (because survival in controls was high). However, clearly, these juveniles
could have been killed, but not eaten (in which case, it would not be cannibalism). Were all the
juveniles actually eaten?
(4) I would like to propose an alternative explanation for one of the main results: that infected
adults showed no preference toward cannibalizing uninfected versus infected juveniles. Perhaps
these infected adults were fairly “immune” to the negative effects of the parasite, so they could
afford to be indiscriminate with regard to the whether or not their victim was already parasitized.
If the authors were to address these issues (which I suspect that they easily can), then their paper
should make an outstanding contribution to the literature on cannibalism.
(signed)
David Pfennig
University of North Carolina
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140369)
01-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Alexander,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Eaten alive: cannibalism is enhanced by parasites")
has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 17-Dec-2014). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
4
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140369.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Dear Subject Editor,
Thank you for reviewing our manuscript RSOS-140369 entitled "Eaten alive:
cannibalism is enhanced by parasites" for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
Both reviewers were positive about the manuscript and have made a number
of helpful suggestions as to its improvement. We are glad to take the advice
that was provided and present a revised version of the original manuscript
with detailed responses to reviewers comments below.
Thank you once again for your attention to this.
Mhairi Alexander
Corresponding Author
Centre for Invasion Biology, Dept. of Botany & Zoology, Stellenbosch
University, Private Bag X1, Matieland 7602, South Africa;
malexander@sun.ac.za; +27 (0)765681771
Reviewer 1
Comment 1 - Details of the study system are lacking. For example, how
common is cannibalism in naturally occurring populations of this species?
Authors’ response - Whilst it is difficult to establish cannibalism rates in the
field, there is a large body of evidence that this species commonly engages in
cannibalism, the evidence principally from micro- and mesocosm experiments
that simulate field conditions (eg mesocosm 'stream patches'; Dick 1995 J.
Zool). Also, as the only route that we can find for the transmission of the
microsporidian is cannibalism (MacNeil et al 2003 Int. J. Parasitol.), this is
further evidence of field cannibalism.
We now make these points in the revision as follows:
Line 98 “There is a large body of evidence that indicates G. duebeni celticus
commonly engages in cannibalism in the field. In addition the only known
route for the transmission of the microsporidian is cannibalism, providing
further evidence of field cannibalism (MacNeil et al 2003).
Comment 2 - Details of the Methods are also lacking. Specifically why were
males (not females) used as the focal cannibals?
Authors’ response - Females are in various stages of egg/embryo brooding
and this can add a lot of variation to assessments of cannibalism, since
females close to moult/embryo release avoid cannibalism to various degrees
(see Lewis, Dick et al 2010 Ethology). We clarify this in the methods as
follows:
Line 118 “Males were selected for experiments due to the wide variation in female
cannibalism that can occur due to factors relating to egg and embryo brooding”
Comment 3 - did the parasite loads of the infected individuals (either adult
males are juveniles) vary widely?
Authors’ response - All individuals had visible infection and this has been
clarified as follows:
Line 121 “parasitised individuals all had visible infection of 1-2 segments
(Fielding et al 2005)”
Comment 4 - did the densities for the FR experiments correspond to densities
in the wild?
Authors’ response - The densities used in the FR experiment are informed by
previous work on predatory FRs using gammarids so that resolution is
obtained in response type when the density is close to 0 and saturation occurs
at higher densities.
Densities in the wild are hyper-variable and can reach several thousand per
square metre, and the animals also concentrate under stones and leaves, hence
our densities were not outside the natural range of densities of this species.
We now detail this in the MS as follows:
Line 129 “The densities of juvenile prey used were informed by previous functional
response studies on gammarids in combination with known densities from the wild
that are hyper-variable and can reach several thousand per square metre”
Comment 5 - are naturally occurring individuals likely to have a choice
between eating parasitized and unparasitized individuals (i.e., do both occur in
close proximity)?
Authors’ response - Yes, parasitized and unparasitized animals occur together
as documented in MacNeil et al (2004) A species invasion mediated through
habitat structure, intraguild predation, and parasitism, Limnology and
Oceanography 49: 1848-1856. We now detail this as follows:
Line 96 “. It has a prevalence of up to 90%, and can alter predation hierarchies
among species with both parasitized and unparasitized occurring in close proximity
to one another”
Comment 6 - Related to the previous point, the authors infer that all deaths of
their juvenile victims were due to cannibalism (because survival in controls
was high). However, clearly, these juveniles could have been killed, but not
eaten (in which case, it would not be cannibalism). Were all the juveniles
actually eaten?
Authors’ response - Juveniles were typically consumed entirely or partially,
with body parts littering the aquarium floors. We detail this as follows:
Line 155 “This was further evidenced through observation and amphipod body parts
littering the aquarium floor.”
Comment 7 - I would like to propose an alternative explanation for one of the
main results: that infected adults showed no preference toward cannibalizing
uninfected versus infected juveniles. Perhaps these infected adults were fairly
"immune" to the negative effects of the parasite, so they could afford to be
indiscriminate with regard to the whether or not their victim was already
parasitized.
Authors’ response – This of course could be a possible explanation but we
think it to be unlikely due to lack of encapsulation and other immune
responses. We detail this in the text as follows:
Line 184 “One explanation for this lack of discrimination may be that immune
priming or immune up-regulation protects infected individuals from further
infection (Masri and Cremer 2014). However, as Terry et al (2003) found no
evidence of encapsulation or other immune responses in P. mulleri infected
hosts. Rather, we suggest that the lack of discrimination in cannibalism of
infected versus uninfected juveniles by infected adults again reflects the
metabolic burden of infection whereby parasitised individuals cannot afford to
be as selective in what prey they consume.”
Comment 8 - If the authors were to address these issues (which I suspect that
they easily can), then their paper should make an outstanding contribution to
the literature on cannibalism.
Authors’ response – We are pleased that Prof. Pfennig values our study and
are grateful for the constructive comments he has offered.
Reviewer 2
Comment 1 - p3, lines 95-96: P. mulleri is not specific to freshwater
populations of G. d. celticus. It also occurs in populations of G. d. duebeni in
brackish water (see Ironside et al (2008) J. Eukaryot. Microbiol., 55(4), pp.
355-362).
Authors’ response – This has been amended by the removal of ‘freshwater’.
Comment 2 - Figure 2: it would be more informative to display this data as
single bars, showing the proportion of infected individuals chosen, with error
bars displaying 95% binomial confidence intervals.
Authors’ response – We have debated the presentation of this data and feel
strongly that to display the raw frequency data used in the X2 analyses as in
the original submission is most appropriate and easily interpreted.
Society Open
