RNA-directed epigenetic silencing of Periostin inhibits cell
motility
Nicholas C. Lister, Matthew Clemson, and Kevin V. Morris
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140545.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140545
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 December 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article has been transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140545.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Mikko Turunen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supplemental data should be referenced in "materials and methods"
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Manuscript ”RNA-directed epigenetic silencing of Periostin inhibits cell metastasis” by Lister et
al describes the use of promoter targeted small RNA for silencing Periostin transcription by
transciptional gene silencing (TGS). Manuscript is very straightforward and well written.
Major comments:
Figure 2D is somewhat puzzling: alpha-Amanitin (typo in Fig2D label) also inhibits pol-III
mediated transcription (to a lesser extent than pol-II), authors should show that the transcription
of as6 (driven by U6 promoter I suppose) is not affected and that the transcription of non-coding
transcript in the promoter is inhibited (intended target?). Authors should clarify this issue.
Calculation of ChIP results (Figure 2B) should be explained: what means “no antibody
subtracted”? Has IgG been taken to account? In the figure text it is written “normalized to
standard curve of genomic PC3 DNA”.
Minor comments:
Page 4, line 86. “desired primer set”, this should reference to the supplemental data.
page 9, line 198: remove word “with”
page 10, lines 235-238: First authors write that “slight regrowth seen without Mitomycin Cin as6
treated cells was due to cell migration rather than proliferation” and then “as6 sasRNA directed
TGS of Periostin appears to be a potent suppressor (of) cell migration”. This must be clarified.
Page 8 line 184 cites figure 1B even though likely means 1E
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Timothy J Underwood)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors describe a limited amount or work based on the targeted gene silencing of periostin
using small antisense non-coding RNA. They describe the successful silencing of periostin in a
3
single cell line from prostate cancer (PC3) and focus the rest of their experiments on that cell line.
They show this to be due to transcriptional repression and that it leads to inhibition of cell
migration in scratch assays and loss of proliferation. No data regarding the extra-cellular matrix
or invasion is presented and there is no animal work. This is not a prerequisite for publication,
but is required if they wan to evidence a role in metastasis formation.
I have serious concerns regarding the interpretation of this data in the discussion and title. None
of the data presented is evidence for the role of periostin in the metastasis. This has been
documented by other groups using much more sophisticated methods including in vivo work.
The authors must remove sentences such as this "Collectively, the observations presented here
suggest that as6 has the potential to function as an anti-metastatic molecule that could be highly
useful in cancer treatments", as they are misleading and not supported by the evidence presented.
I also think they should discuss the recent data from our group and others that suggests that
periostin expression is not restricted to the cancer cells but also comes from stromal cells,
especially fibroblasts.
In summary the manuscript needs to be re-written to more accurately describe the experimental
findings without over-interpretation of the data.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140545)
31-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Morris
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140545 entitled
"RNA-directed epigenetic silencing of Periostin inhibits cell metastasis" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Both reviewers agree that this work is worth publishing, subject to some revisions.
Reviewer 1 highlights several minor issues that need to be addressed. Reviewer 2 raises serious
concerns about data interpretation. It is important that the text is modified such that the
conclusions are waranted by the available results (or else more experiments would be required to
maintain the context of metastasis inhibition).
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
4
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-Apr-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to get in
touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both reviewers agree that this work is worth publishing, subject to some revisions. Reviewer 1
highlights several minor issues that neeed to be addressed. Reviewer 2 raises serious concerns
about data interpretation. It is important that the text is modified such that the conclusions are
waranted by the available results (or more experiments would be required to maintain the
context of metastasis inhibition).
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Manuscript ”RNA-directed epigenetic silencing of Periostin inhibits cell metastasis” by Lister et
al describes the use of promoter targeted small RNA for silencing Periostin transcription by
transciptional gene silencing (TGS). Manuscript is very straightforward and well written.
Major comments:
Figure 2D is somewhat puzzling: alpha-Amanitin (typo in Fig2D label) also inhibits pol-III
mediated transcription (to a lesser extent than pol-II), authors should show that the transcription
of as6 (driven by U6 promoter I suppose) is not affected and that the transcription of non-coding
transcript in the promoter is inhibited (intended target?). Authors should clarify this issue.
Calculation of ChIP results (Figure 2B) should be explained: what means “no antibody
subtracted”? Has IgG been taken to account? In the figure text it is written “normalized to
standard curve of genomic PC3 DNA”.
Minor comments:
Page 4, line 86. “desired primer set”, this should reference to the supplemental data.
page 9, line 198: remove word “with”
6
page 10, lines 235-238: First authors write that “slight regrowth seen without Mitomycin Cin as6
treated cells was due to cell migration rather than proliferation” and then “as6 sasRNA directed
TGS of Periostin appears to be a potent suppressor (of) cell migration”. This must be clarified.
Page 8 line 184 cites figure 1B even though likely means 1E
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors describe a limited amount or work based on the targeted gene silencing of periostin
using small antisense non-coding RNA. They describe the successful silencing of periostin in a
single cell line from prostate cancer (PC3) and focus the rest of their experiments on that cell line.
They show this to be due to transcriptional repression and that it leads to inhibition of cell
migration in scratch assays and loss of proliferation. No data regarding the extra-cellular matrix
or invasion is presented and there is no animal work. This is not a prerequisite for publication,
but is required if they wan to evidence a role in metastasis formation.
I have serious concerns regarding the interpretation of this data in the discussion and title. None
of the data presented is evidence for the role of periostin in the metastasis. This has been
documented by other groups using much more sophisticated methods including in vivo work.
The authors must remove sentences such as this "Collectively, the observations presented here
suggest that as6 has the potential to function as an anti-metastatic molecule that could be highly
useful in cancer treatments", as they are misleading and not supported by the evidence presented.
I also think they should discuss the recent data from our group and others that suggests that
periostin expression is not restricted to the cancer cells but also comes from stromal cells,
especially fibroblasts.
In summary the manuscript needs to be re-written to more accurately describe the experimental
findings without over-interpretation of the data.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140545)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
appreciate the reviewer comments. Our response to the comments and changes incorporated
the manuscript are shown below in italics.
viewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
nuscript ”RNA-directed epigenetic silencing of Periostin inhibits cell metastasis” by Lister et
describes the use of promoter targeted small RNA for silencing Periostin transcription by
sciptional gene silencing (TGS). Manuscript is very straightforward and well written.
jor comments:
ure 2D is somewhat puzzling: alpha-Amanitin (typo in Fig2D label) also inhibits pol-III
diated transcription (to a lesser extent than pol-II), authors should show that the transcription
s6 (driven by U6 promoter I suppose) is not affected and that the transcription of non-coding
script in the promoter is inhibited (intended target?). Authors should clarify this issue.
ponse: This is an excellent point. In these studies the plasmids were first transfected into the
ures and then 12hrs later alpha amantin treatment initiated. In this manner a burst of U6
ressed RNAs is present and then the target RNA, e.g. Periostin promoter associated RNA
n et al., 2007) is repressed using alpha amanatin rendering a loss of the observed TGS.
culation of ChIP results (Figure 2B) should be explained: what means “no antibody
tracted”? Has IgG been taken to account? In the figure text it is written “normalized to
dard curve of genomic PC3 DNA”.
ponse: We appreciate the reviewers comments here. We have amended this in the main text
figure 2 legend to “(B) ChIP of RNAPII and DNMT3a at the Periostin promoter was
ermined 72hrs post-transfection. The relative enrichment of RNAPII and DNMT3a was
ermined following subtraction of no antibody beads alone control and standardized to input.”
in the supplemental data section to “Determination of relative enrichment is determined by
trasting amplification of a standard curve of genomic PC3 DNA. The bead alone no antibody
trol samples are subtracted from both the input and CHIPs and the relative enrichment
ermined as a fraction of input for the respective samples.”
nor comments:
e 4, line 86. “desired primer set”, this should reference to the supplemental data.
ponse: This has been amended.
e 9, line 198: remove word “with”
ponse: This has been amended.
e 10, lines 235-238: First authors write that “slight regrowth seen without Mitomycin Cin as6
ted cells was due to cell migration rather than proliferation” and then “as6 sasRNA directed
S of Periostin appears to be a potent suppressor (of) cell migration”. This must be clarified.
ponse: We have amended this section to read “The addition of Mitomycin C to as6 treated
s caused the scratch to remain completely intact, with no edge distortion occurring,
gesting that the regrowth seen without Mitomycin C in as6 treated cells was presumably due
ell migration rather than proliferation (Figure 3E).”
e 8 line 184 cites figure 1B even though likely means 1E
ponse: This has been amended.
viewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
authors describe a limited amount or work based on the targeted gene silencing of periostin
ng small antisense non-coding RNA. They describe the successful silencing of periostin in a
gle cell line from prostate cancer (PC3) and focus the rest of their experiments on that cell
. They show this to be due to transcriptional repression and that it leads to inhibition of cell
ration in scratch assays and loss of proliferation. No data regarding the extra-cellular matrix
nvasion is presented and there is no animal work. This is not a prerequisite for publication,
is required if they wan to evidence a role in metastasis formation.
ve serious concerns regarding the interpretation of this data in the discussion and title. None
the data presented is evidence for the role of periostin in the metastasis. This has been
umented by other groups using much more sophisticated methods including in vivo
rk. The authors must remove sentences such as this "Collectively, the observations presented
e suggest that as6 has the potential to function as an anti-metastatic molecule that could be
hly useful in cancer treatments", as they are misleading and not supported by the evidence
sented.
ponse: We appreciate the reviewer’s sentiments here and have altered the title and text to
er reflect that we are observing an effect on cell motility and NOT metastasis. We have
oved the sentence suggested above and replaced it with the following sentence “Collectively,
observations presented here suggest that as6 has the potential to function as an inhibitor of
motility and possibly as an anti-metastatic molecule that could be highly useful in cancer
tments. Though the effect of as6 on cell metastasis remains to be determined and will require
her in vivo studies.”
so think they should discuss the recent data from our group and others that suggests that
iostin expression is not restricted to the cancer cells but also comes from stromal cells,
ecially fibroblasts.
ponse: It is unclear which data we should be citing from the reviewer here as no literature
tions were provided.
erature cited:
n, J., Kim, D., and Morris, K.V. (2007). Promoter-associated RNA is required for RNA-
cted transcriptional gene silencing in human cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 104, 12422-
27.
Society Open
