Does the stress response predict the ability of wild birds to
adjust to short-term captivity? A study of the rock pigeon
(Columbia livia)
Frédéric Angelier, Charline Parenteau, Colette Trouvé and Nicole Angelier
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160840.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160840
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160840.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, the data are provided as a supplementary material and this is made clear in the 'Data
Accessibility' section.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I thank the authors for their thorough revision of the manuscript and for adequately addressing my
concerns from the previous review. I have just a couple of minor changes to suggest. (Appendix A)
Line 221: 'ex:' should read 'e.g.,'
Reference 7 (Spostwood et al 2012) is missing title and journal information.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I reviewed this manuscript previously for Biology Letters, and I found it a bit data-light and the
claims of the paper not quite justified by the data. Although I still think it is a bit data-light, the
authors of the paper have qualified some of their earlier claims to the point where I think it is fine
to publish as is. I think it will be a useful contribution to the literature.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160840)
17-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Angelier
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160840 entitled
"Does the stress response predict the ability of wild birds to adjust to short-term captivity? A
study in the rock pigeon (Columbia livia)" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160840
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
4
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 26-Nov-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Dr Kevin Padian
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I thank the authors for their thorough revision of the manuscript and for adequately addressing
my concerns from the previous review. I have just a couple of minor changes to suggest.
Line 221: 'ex:' should read 'e.g.,'
Reference 7 (Spostwood et al 2012) is missing title and journal information.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
I reviewed this manuscript previously for Biology Letters, and I found it a bit data-light and the
claims of the paper not quite justified by the data. Although I still think it is a bit data-light, the
authors of the paper have qualified some of their earlier claims to the point where I think it is fine
to publish as is. I think it will be a useful contribution to the literature.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160840)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160840.R1)
18-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Angelier,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Does the stress response predict the
ability of wild birds to adjust to short-term captivity? A study in the rock pigeon (Columbia
livia)" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
6
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
The study by Angelier et al. aims to test whether the corticosterone acute stress
ponse is predictive of the ability of rock pigeons to adjust to captivity. They found that birds
sferred to captivity had higher baseline corticosterone a day after initial capture. The most
resting finding was that stress-induced corticosterone levels at first capture were correlated
h body mass change and baseline corticosterone after a day of captivity. The writing is clear
hough I have listed a few minor grammatical errors below) and the statistical analyses are
erally appropriate.
neral comments
I like the idea of trying to find a measure that predicts how well an animal adjusts to
tivity, and I believe successfully find such a measure would be of interest to a range of
ogists. However, for multiple reasons I believe this aim is not reached with the present study
currently has limited applied benefits.
First, what the authors considered successfully (or unsuccessfully) adjusting to captivity
s poorly defined. The last sentence of the first paragraph gives the reader an idea, but it was
made clear whether these are what the authors considered, and none of these were
erved in the current study. The authors measured change in body mass over the first week
aptivity, but I am not convinced that this is the most salient proxy for adjusting to captivity.
eed, all birds gained weight within a week and none of the birds died, so it seems that all of
birds successfully adjusted. In other words, there was little variation in whether they
usted to captivity. A better test of the authors’ hypothesis would be to use a study system in
ch there is substantial variation in ability to adjust. I realize the ethical issues with studying
ether animals die, which is exactly why other measures of ability to adjust are required. For
mple, food intake, locomotor activity, or successfully breeding would be meaningful
asures of adjusting to captivity.
Second, as the authors state in line 42, it is crucial to assess the ability to adjust to
tivity before animals are brought into captivity. However, in the last paragraph of the
cussion the authors point out that it is simply not feasible to measure corticosterone this
ckly. Therefore, corticosterone fails as a measure of an animal’s ability to adjust to captivity
ore they are brought into captivity. This is not to say that measuring corticosterone has no
ue as a proxy of adjusting to captivity, but it fails to meet the author’s own goal of the study.
In my view, the authors’ conclusion (line 123) that the corticosterone response to a
ndardized stress protocol can be a reliable predictor of the ability of wild individuals to adjust
aptivity is unjustified by the findings of the current study. All the authors’ can really say with
se data is that the stress response predicts body mass loss a day after entering captivity.
s is an interesting finding, but it does not adequately address the goals of the study.
The authors seem to suggest (line 135) that the elevated baseline corticosterone after a
of captivity is due to the stress of being transferred to captivity. This conclusion is also
ustified given the study design. To make this claim, the study would also need a treatment
up of birds that were caught and sampled on day one, then released back into the wild and
aptured and sampled 24 hours later. Without such a group, the authors cannot rule out that
elvated baseline corticosterone 24 hours after transfer is simply a lag from the previous
’s stress.
or comments
e 38: replace ‘don’t’ with ‘do not’.
e 47: Should be ‘cope’, not ‘coping’.
e 72: Somewhere it should describe the number of males and females.
e 75: It is typical to measure a stress response over 30 minutes, not 60. I realize this is
inly convention, but the authors might consider describing in the supplementary materials
y they chose 60 minutes.
e 87: I realize that the authors cite a previous paper for the hormone assay methods, but
y should still briefly describe this method (in the supplementary materials would be fine).
o, more details of the methods in general should be provided in the supplementary materials.
e 103: I am not sure it is appropriate to perform post-hoc tests when there is not a significant
raction effect.
eneral suggestion: The authors might consider following the excellent advice of Donald
odsma when writing figure legends (Kroodsma 2000. A quick fix for figure legends and table
dings. Auk 117, 1081-1083). In my view, this slight modification to how figure legends are
ten make them vastly more readable and informative.
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160840 entitled
Does the stress response predict the ability of wild birds to adjust to short-term captivity? A study in
he rock pigeon (Columbia livia)" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
ubject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
omments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
evisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
We thank the editors and the reviewers for their comments. We have modified the manuscript
according to the few minor recommendations of the reviewers.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
thank the authors for their thorough revision of the manuscript and for adequately addressing my
oncerns from the previous review. I have just a couple of minor changes to suggest.
We thank the reviewer for his/her positive comment about our manuscript.
ine 221: 'ex:' should read 'e.g.,'
Reference 7 (Spostwood et al 2012) is missing title and journal information.
These changes have been made in the new version of the manuscript.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
reviewed this manuscript previously for Biology Letters, and I found it a bit data-light and the claims
of the paper not quite justified by the data. Although I still think it is a bit data-light, the authors of
he paper have qualified some of their earlier claims to the point where I think it is fine to publish as
s. I think it will be a useful contribution to the literature.
We thank the reviewer for his/her positive comment about our manuscript. We have noticed that a
pdf file was attached with the decision. This pdf file appeared to be the exact same one that we
eceived following our previous submission to Biology Letters. In our first submission to Royal Society
Open Science, we have explained how we have dealt with these comments. We are happy to see that
he reviewer thinks we have satisfactorily answered to his/her comments.
Society Open
