Taking a closer look: disentangling effects of functional
diversity on ecosystem functions with a trait-based model
across hierarchy and time
Frédéric Holzwarth, Nadja Rüger and Christian Wirth
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140541.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140541
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 February 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140359.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (David Hooper)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper is successful in illustrating the variability in effects of different components of
functional diversity and attempting to resolve the mechanisms of their effects for at least one trait
axis (the gradient from early- to late- successional species) on one ecosystem property (biomass
accrual). It also illustrates how these effects change over successional time. This is a welcome
advancement in a field that has become grossly oversimplified by graphing every conceivable
process against species richness in an attempt to show that “biodiversity is good”. That said, the
presentation of the results is both complex, and in many places, underexplained, making it easy
for the reader to get bogged down. Most of my comments are aimed at clarification to help the
reader get through the mass of material presented. A couple of overall comments:
1. Anything the authors can do to simplify and clarify the presentation of results (especially
in the Supplementary Info) would help.
2. In the results and discussion, it would help to describe more the biology and less the
statistics; in some places, the authors do this well, but in others not. To give just one example,
rather than just saying that Fdiss has a positive or negative effect on a response variable, explain
what’s going on biologically in a mixture that includes a mix of early, mid, and late successional
species versus one that does not.
Fig. 1, 191-200: why was just one trait axis used from the PCA, since it only explains 26% of the
variance? There may be a good rationale (i.e. focusing only on successional dynamics, adequately
illustrating a few key points with that simplification), but this should be stated explicitly.
Otherwise, the reader wonders what other functional mechanisms are being missed? Or are
successional dynamics the only aspect investigated? Can you characterize the PC axes that
weren’t used?
I found most of the figure captions lacking in enough detail to interpret the graph without
referring to the main text. I’m one who often reads the intro to understand the questions, skims
the methods to get a sense of the approach, then looks at the results graphs to understand the
findings. Without a thorough read of the methods though, much of the results were
uninterpretable. For example, the delta terminology is more understandable once one has read
the methods (263-268), but without that, it’s very confusing to see in the figures.
- Fig. 2 caption: needs a bit more explanation. So, each dot is one scenario and there are
416 scenarios total? Briefly state how the values were chosen. This is described in the methods,
but not obvious from the figure and caption itself.
- Fig. 3, 4 captions, and associated text (233-240, 251-254): What is “biomass change rate”
(Fig. 3)? is this deltaABC? The change in the rate of biomass change? Can you put this in more
typical ecosystem terms, like biomass and NPP? Is deltaABC the same as deltaNPP? That is, not
NPP itself, but the change in NPP from year to year (the slope of the line of NPP vs. time)? If so,
that needs more explanation and justification, since most empirical and theoretical BEF work to
date has focused on NPP itself.
- Fig. 5 caption: more detail needed. Just state that each line is a different species for A, C
and D. In B, what’s the difference between deltaABC and deltaBiomass? Explain change in
mortality.
- Fig. 6, 7 captions: box plots need more explanation. Also, what are units of Functional
Identity? The caption says “CWM of the hyper-trait”, but since the hypertrait is a PC axis, I
would expect some positive and some negative values.
3
- Fig. 8: need to include statistics in the figure, not in a separate table, and definitely not in
Supp Info, especially for model fit. Small point: “Edge” in the caption should be “line”.
- Fig. S1: how are numbers of model runs indicated? I see no scale anywhere.
- Fig. S4: “colors are for visualization”, but what do they represent? Figure needs to be
larger. I don’t get the y-axis units – needs explanation.
- Fig. S5: mislabeling of panels B and C. Can you just write on the panels what each one is?
- And so on…almost all the supplementary figures need more info in the caption.
- Are all the Supp Info figures necessary? It’s not clear that all of them are referred to in
the main text, nor is it clear that they are referred to in numerical order. Are there tables and
figures the duplicate data? There is so much in here that it’s easy to lose track.
471-474: While shown in the figures, and briefly described here, the role of variability in states
isn’t described much in the manuscript.
491-501: This is a good point, particularly for mechanistic understanding, and particularly if
researchers are only measuring one aspect of an overall causal pathway and claiming positive
effects of biodiversity. On the other hand, one could argue that if you have several processes that
cancel each other out in the big picture, the resulting overall null effect is still relevant, even if we
don’t understand exactly why it happens.
Minor comments
278: “…data WERE averaged…”. Also, what were they averaged across? Levels of functional
diversity? Years? Be specific.
278-279: This makes sense, but were there any objective criteria for choosing the specific periods
(e.g. coinciding with transitions in species composition or process rates)?
281-285: Not complete sentences.
306-307: Shade effect needs more explanation.
335-9: most of this text should go in the fig. caption. Also, the figures aren’t very crowded – why
not include the standardized path coefficients and model fit statistics? Then we have all the data
to evaluate the results easily accessible. Better yet, why not scale the arrows by SPC, but display
the unstandardized coefficients?
341-345: Describe these results biologically, not just statistically. What is the biological meaning
of a negative effect of F-ID on deltaABC? We need some idea of model fit here.
422: “…look AT…” rather than “look on”.
449: Fig. S11 is too cryptically annotated to see how it relates to the point being made here.
467-468: fix grammar.
515-525: This paragraph is difficult to follow; it is full of jargon and unconnected sentences.
538-545: Run-on sentence; break it up.
545-548: what are you trying to say here?
558: “…, WE used…”
562: don’t start your conclusions with a caveat. This needs instead a strong topic sentence to get
across the main points.
Best of luck with this,
David Hooper
Western Washington University
4
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I could not find any reference to the R code used for the analyses in the manuscript. The authors
should do at least one of the following (preferably one of the first two): add the code as
supplementary material, provide a web address where the can be downloaded, provide contact
information of the individual in charge of maintaining the code.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See pdf
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140359)
02-Dec-2014
Dear Mrs Holzwarth:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140359 entitled "Multi-faceted, dynamic and hierarchical trait influence in
BEF relationships – insights from a trait-based model experiment embracing complexity" which
you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers
are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
5
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 01-Jun-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140541.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Nels Johnson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Much improved over the previous version. Very good work. I recommend accept with minor
revisions.
Suggestions:
I still think the title is not informative about the contents of the paper. It has too many
unnecessary words/phrases as implemented (e.g., 'multi-faceted', 'dynamic', 'embracing
6
complexity') and simply removing those words doesn't make the title much clearer. It has an
undefined, non-ubiquitous initialism (BEF) in its title which should be removed/replaced.
Finally, the title could be explicit about what 'insights' are gained. I strongly recommend
scrapping the title and coming up with a new one from scratch.
lines 566--567: Statistical methods don't make assumptions, scientists make assumptions to justify
the use statistical methods. We may not speak that way in casual conversation, but it's important
in scientific publication to assign agency to that which has agency.That means the scientists make
the assumptions, not the methods.
line 569--570: Which results? How do the help generate new hypotheses? It might be better to end
the paragraph with an edited version of this sentence, rather than starting the paragraph with an
edited version.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140541)
13-Feb-2015
Dear Mrs Holzwarth
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140541 entitled
"Multi-faceted, dynamic and hierarchical trait influence in BEF relationships – insights from a
trait-based model experiment embracing complexity" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
7
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 22-Feb-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
8
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
