Building a responsive teacher: how temporal contingency of
gaze interaction influences word learning with virtual tutors
Hanju Lee, Yasuhiro Kanakogi, Kazuo Hiraki
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140361.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140361
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140361.R0(Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No, how to access the supporting data is not clear to me.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this ms. the authors report a behavioral study, in which they used a temporally contingent
virtual character as compared to one, which exhibited quantitatively similar but not contingent
behavior to influence language learning in groups of participants. I applaud the authors for
targeting this timely and most important question, which resonates with recent efforts in
biobehavioral sciences to investigate how cognitive phenomenon may be inherently linked to
participation in real-time social interaction (as compared to situations where no reciprocal
relations between agents exist). From my perspective, the results are straightforward and the
authors also discuss relevant limitations of their study.
Not being a native English speaker myself, I would suggest that the paper should be proof-read
by one.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is OK.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an interesting study in an area that needs investigating. Recently, a pedagogical signal
such as contingency is very effective for learning from human agent. In this paper, the authors
showed that the temporal contingency is very effective in word learning even in virtual tutor that
is animated agent. This is quire new finding. This paper has a merit for publication for many
readers. I have no serious criticisms regarding methodology, results and interpretation of results.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140361)
23rd November 2014
Dear Mr Lee
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140361 entitled
"Building a responsive teacher: How temporal contingency of gaze interaction influences word
learning with virtual tutors" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
3
comments at the end of this email. Please also ensure that your raw data are made available in an
anonymised fashion. See the Data availability section for more information.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 03-Dec-2014). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140361)
Dear Royal Society Open Science
We are very glad to hear this wonderful news. We revised author contribution section according
to the suggested format.
To Reviewer 1: Thanks very much for the kind comments.
To Reviewer 2: Thanks very much for the kind comments.
The original manuscript was sent to a editing service, but we made few changes after that, and
those final changes must have included grammar issues. Following your suggestion, we fixed
several grammatical errors that remained in the manuscript.
Society Open
