A unified model of the standard genetic code
Marco V. José, Gabriel S. Zamudio and Eberto R. Morgado
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160908.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160908
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 June 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 14 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 18 January 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 30 January 2017
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160458.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Romeu Guimaraes)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Comments are in the attached file. They may be seen by both editor and authors equally. Feel free
to ask me for any further clarifications, wherever thought necessary. (Appendix A.)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Charlie Carter)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There do not appear to be any supplementary files.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see attached file. (Appendix B.)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160458)
22-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Jose:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160458 entitled "A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic Code" which you
submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are
included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
3
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 22-Mar-2017. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Katrin Rittinger, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Comments are in the attached file. They may be seen by both editor and authors equally. Feel free
to ask me for any further clarifications, wherever thought necessary.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Please see attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160458)
See Appendix C.
label_version_2
RSOS-160908.R0 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Romeu Guimaraes)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
4
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
-
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
I remain entirely at your orders, both of the journal and of the authors. I only want to help the
mutual understanding, which may require more conversations. (Appendix D.)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Charlie Carter)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
-
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
I found considerable merit in the first submission of this manuscript, and the authors have
responded thoughtfully to each of the concerns raised in my initial review. Their responses now
merit publication in Open Science. I elaborate below questions that remain, having to do with the
effort to connect the group theoretic models to chemically meaningful metrics of amino acid
behavior. The authors have conscientiously covered these issues in their remarks, and their
response suffices to convince me that whatever differences remain are likely important clues to
the evolution of the genetic code. I reiterate my feeling that the importance of this contribution
may increase substantially in time; it is a completely novel attempt to find a rationale for the
puzzling arrangement of the coding table according to the two classes of aminoacyl-tRNA
synthetases that may eventually bring qualitatively new insight.
5
My remaining concern has to do with the fact that the 6D representation has projections that are
consistent with the “polar requirement”, an empirical scale unrelated to either of the two transfer
equilibria that best represent the partitioning of amino acids between pure phases, rather than
between a pure phase and cellulose. I have repeated the computations the authors describe in
their response to my initial review, and, found to my surprise, precisely what they report: there
is indeed no obvious relationship between the PR and either of the two sets of transfer equilibria;
nor is there any correlation between the PR and the exposure of amino acids in folded proteins. In
my mind, there are two main possibilities: (i) the polar requirement represents an unanticipated
property of the 20 amino acids that points to a deeper understanding of the code, or (ii) the
coloring of the four projected hypercubes according to the polar requirement is a red herring
unrelated to the physical chemistry of the amino acids. It may indeed be worth discovering which
of these two possibilities makes more sense.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160908)
04-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Jose,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic Code") has
now received comments from reviewers. As you can see from the reports one of the reviewers
still has a number of concerns and questions about the manuscript. We would like to invite you
to comment on these questions and revise your paper in accordance with the referee suggestions
which can be found below. Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 27-Jan-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to each of the comments, and the adjustments you have
made. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as
possible in your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
6
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160908
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
7
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
I found considerable merit in the first submission of this manuscript, and the authors have
responded thoughtfully to each of the concerns raised in my initial review. Their responses now
merit publication in Open Science. I elaborate below questions that remain, having to do with the
effort to connect the group theoretic models to chemically meaningful metrics of amino acid
behavior. The authors have conscientiously covered these issues in their remarks, and their
response suffices to convince me that whatever differences remain are likely important clues to
the evolution of the genetic code. I reiterate my feeling that the importance of this contribution
may increase substantially in time; it is a completely novel attempt to find a rationale for the
puzzling arrangement of the coding table according to the two classes of aminoacyl-tRNA
synthetases that may eventually bring qualitatively new insight.
My remaining concern has to do with the fact that the 6D representation has projections that are
consistent with the “polar requirement”, an empirical scale unrelated to either of the two transfer
equilibria that best represent the partitioning of amino acids between pure phases, rather than
between a pure phase and cellulose. I have repeated the computations the authors describe in
their response to my initial review, and, found to my surprise, precisely what they report: there
is indeed no obvious relationship between the PR and either of the two sets of transfer equilibria;
nor is there any correlation between the PR and the exposure of amino acids in folded proteins. In
my mind, there are two main possibilities: (i) the polar requirement represents an unanticipated
property of the 20 amino acids that points to a deeper understanding of the code, or (ii) the
coloring of the four projected hypercubes according to the polar requirement is a red herring
unrelated to the physical chemistry of the amino acids. It may indeed be worth discovering which
of these two possibilities makes more sense.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
See attached pdf/Word document
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160908)
See Appendix E.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160908.R1)
30-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Jose,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A Unified Model of the Standard
Genetic Code" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
8
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
feree’s Report by Romeu Cardoso Guimarães, August 29, 2016
examined the article ‘A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic Code’
Jose, Marco; Morgado, Eberto; Zamudio, Gabriel, submitted to Royal
ciety Open Science, Ms ID: RSOS-160458 and, I’m sorry to say, I do
t find it adequate for publication.
e main reason is the lack of biological content. It may be good and
und with respect to the mathematical treatment, of which I do not
derstand much, but I consider that the biochemist or biologist will
t profit from it. I know this group’s work for quite a while and, in
e review of a previous paper of them (the editor of the journal was
ecific in asking for the ‘applied’ character of the math in the
per), I made them to notice that, in spite of the elegant
thematics, this approach would become interesting only as long as it
uld be applied in evaluation of biologically relevant data or
dels, e. g., in offering itself as a tool for comparisons between
fferent biological models. This was not done. It seems that the
thors got stuck in the dedication to the RNY model and don’t have
es open to other models. This kind of ‘autistic’ behavior is not
common in science, and is understandable and not bad in itself, but
y be noticed without further qualifications.
ey are now evaluating the Rodin-Ohno and the Delarue models only to
e extent these coincide with the algebraic symmetry aspect of their
terest and expertise. The basis of the Rodin-Ohno and the Delarue
dels may be considered biological due to being exercised upon
cleic acid molecules, but the aspect considered in the paper is only
e symmetrical, derived from the complementariness property of the
nse / antisense strands, applied to the synthetase classes (I / II,
each) or to the triplets (codon pairs or codon / anticodon; it
ems to be clear that they utilize the codon pair option, but I still
ve doubts on this). Other more strictly biological - functional
pects of the nucleic acids are not taken into account, other than
e nearly crystalline structure of the code table and of the strand
mplementariness.
have also indicated earlier to them that they could proceed with
me internal controls or tests in the symmetry-search procedure. For
stance, it could be said (therefore, tested) that the same results
uld be obtained with their starting choice for the RNY set of codes
any other set of equivalent size, following the rows RNY, YNR, RNR,
Y or the columns RAN, RGN, RCN, RUN, plus YAN, YGN, YCN, YUN, etc.
e premise under test would be that starting with any kind of a half-
trix you will get, through the same procedure, the full matrix. In
se this is obtained – all options work the same, the relevance and
rit of the RNY model would not rely upon its symmetry properties,
t only upon its biological backing. The paper contains some
ference to these different sets, and their possible
tertransformations, so that they might already have the answer to
is question.
en we come to the biological aspects of the RNY model. I see many
oblems with it. It does not offer a mechanism of encoding, in the
me way the authors say of the error-minimization procedure that is
sically statistic. Both the error-minimization and the procedure the
thors use now of producing symmetry groups with the Polar
quirement values are based, as the authors say, on abiotic
operties of the amino acids, which only adds to the lack of
ological backing. It does not pinpoint a starting small set of
des, but starts straight ahead from almost a full half of the codes,
ich is not a start after all; it is like starting already in the
ddle of the trajectory. The basis of the RNY proposition seems to
ve come from a consensus motif in tRNA sequences, which requires
rtification. I wonder if this has been checked with the more recent
ta bases. I remember having asked Savio T Farias, who also works in
e group, about this motif in his tRNA ancestral sequence
constructions. He said he would be searching for this; the lack of
swer might be understood as a negative answer. Then, the triplet
tif in the premise might be considered vague. This RNY hypothesis
y have a prebiotic backing due to the partial coincidence with the
l-Ala-Gly-Asp GNC row of the most abundant prebiotic amino acids,
erefore being like an extension of that. The search for simpler
ginnings led Edward N Trifonov to concentrate on the simpler portion
that set, namely the Ala-Gly couple, which was a nice attempt.
copy here some comments I’ve been hearing, about the plethora of
dels for the genetic code. People seem to be already tired of having
many, while very few of them would be able to be put to tests and
ought to the biochemistry labs. For this purpose, they need to be
mple and clear, e. g., starting with few codes, instead of a half of
l codes. Besides this, attempts are needed to conjoin different
dels into smaller sets of groups. This paper is an attempt in this
rection but, as said above, it is poor in biology so that it runs
e risk of remaining isolated.
th respect to the synthetase classes, I see that the authors did not
nsider the atypical couple of class II, therewith preserving the
/10 full symmetry that is adequate for the symmetry-based project.
e atypical couple is PheRS – class II but acylating in the class I
de, and LysRS – class II in some and I in other organisms. The
uple is associated with respect to the triplet constitution, forming

pair of the kind anticodon GAA : anticodon YUU , . Note that the

iring is between anticodons, containing the wobble positions in a
aggered configuration in the strands, not the straight and simple
mplementariness used by the authors in their tables. The biochemical
ason for the atypical behavior would be the large size of the amino
ids (the only large amino acids in class II) with respect to the
nthetase class II active site small pockets. The picture emerging is
at at the time of encoding Lys and Phe, synthetases class II were
e ones available more easily but were not adequate for the large
ino acids so that alternative procedures had to be looked for: PheRS
opted the peculiar torsion that led to the acylation in the class I
de; LysRS class II arranged its own mode in some organisms but other
ganisms found the more adequate way of utilizing the class I larger
ckets.
may come back to the point of using the polar requirement values to
nerate the symmetry cubes, saying of the hydropathy values in the
per of Savio T Farias. These data are neatly biologic and superior
the abiotic polar requirements, and should also be adequate for
nerating symmetry groups which are quite well characterized with
spect to biochemistry and biology. They are: (1) a prebiotic module
 
NGG Pro-Gly : NCC Gly plus NGA Ser : NCU Ser ; (2) the
 

itial biotic module of NAG Leu : NUC Asp plus NAA Leu, Phe : NUU


n, Lys [the NCU Arg belongs in this initial biotic set of

dropathy correlation but is located, as an invasion, into the
ebiotic set]; (3, 4) The late two modules that overlap each other

tensively with respect to the hydropathy correlation properties


d .

larue’s model seems to be very strange with respect to including
op signs from the beginning and without any relationship to the
itiation signs. Initiation and termination seem to be the most
mplex of all codes, and suggestions are that they were added late,
the DNA and mRNA worlds.
wonder if the authors would be able to offer the readers some
aning – at least hints or guesses, to be added to the 6-dimensions
ey are proud of having developed. I remain intrigued with the
nversations I’m used to have with mathematicians, where one side
ts stuck with formulas and algorithms while the other keeps wishing
r images and drawings, and the interactions does not progress
rther. I wonder if some of the most important dimensions could be,
g., the three nucleotides in codes, amino acid size, amino acid
eference in protein conformations, amino acid preference in nucleic
id binding motifs of proteins, and so on.
e case for symmetries is a good one. If a symmetry is found relevant
r natural phenomena, these natural processes would be greatly
mplified, due to the repetitiveness inserted by the symmetry. Most
mmon in biology is the finding of modularity, which is expected as
interesting outcome from the symmetry searches. I wonder if the
thors’ lower-dimension cubes might evolve into modules of a
ncerted model, as complex as it might become in the 6-dimensions.
pendix B
e et al., A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic code
s original paper addresses the internal structure of the genetic code from the perspective of
up theory, building on previous work published mostly in mathematical journals. Although
resting, the previous work was widely separated from mainstream thinking about the code.
present work represents a substantial step toward bringing the author’s mathematical
ghts into the mainstream. For this reason, it is a significant, novel, and useful contribution and
rits publication Royal Society Open Science.
authors address several previously unresolved puzzles associated with implementation of
code by the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRS), the molecules that translate it. To wit, (i)
aaRS divide into two, apparently unrelated “Classes” with 10 enzymes families in each Class;
two different groups have attempted to relate the two aaRS Classes to the architecture of the
e, reaching distinct conclusions that seem unmistakably related but remain somewhat
onsistent (1); and (iii) degeneracies in the coding properties suggest that sequential versions
he code “did not erase (their) evolutionary footsteps”.
authors derive resolutions for the three puzzles from the observation that the code of 43 =
codons can also be viewed as 26 = 64 codons in a higher dimensional vector space, where the
olutions become apparent. The central result of the paper appears to be a six-dimensional
up-theoretic mapping between two representations of the code: NAN, NUN, NGN, NCN on
one hand, and RNY, RNR, YNY, and YNR on the other. The second of these captures the Rodin-
no Class division more successfully than the former. The Central conclusion that in dimension
he division of the synthetases into two Classes becomes more apparent appears to be of
damental significance. So too does a consistency between the different attempts by Rodin
Ohno and by Delarue to rationalize evolutionary development of the code itself in a way
sistent with the two Classes. Degeneracies appear as subgroups involving symmetries
oduced by amino acid physical properties represented here by “the polar requirement” (see
ow).
resolved conceptual issues
1. The automorphisms presented in Tables 4 and 5 accomplish most of what the authors
seek and are therefore important. However, they do not appear, either from application
of the automorphisms, from Figures 2 and 3, or from discussion elsewhere, to account for
the fact that tryptophan and tyrosine are activated by Class I synthetases while
phenylalanine is activated by a Class II synthetase. This may or may not vitiate some of
their analysis, as the class division is not exactly equivalent to the distinction between the
acceptor stem groove recognized by a synthetase because the synthetases for aromatic
amino acids appear to recognize their tRNAs from opposite sides of their tRNAs from the
rest of their respective classes. The root of this problem is that aaRS Class is defined by
common genetic origin, whereas divisions in the codon tables appear to reflect groove
recognition on the cognate tRNAs. In any case, the authors should discuss this point to
clarify the division into synthetase classes more clearly, and to identify the aromatic
amino acids clearly as outliers, perhaps because they were recruited latest to complete
the standard genetic code as suggested by the Delarue model, among others.
2. An important source of ambiguity is that the choice of four ranges of polar requirement
to identify with subgroups in Fig. 3 is, itself, a somewhat ambiguous choice, which may
have been conditioned by a desire to color Fig. 3 as they did. Further, “Polar requirement”
appears to be related to Wolfenden’s hydrophobicity scale (2; 3), but is somewhat
uncertain as physical property of amino acids. The work of Carter and Wolfenden relating
vapor and solvent transfer equilibria to the genetic code, represent a far less ambiguous
two-dimensional basis set for characterizing the twenty amino acids in terms of physico-
chemical Gibbs free energies (2; 4; 5). That work emphasized the importance of the two-
dimensional basis set for predicting the exposed surface areas in folded proteins. If the
subgroups the authors identify in Fig. 3 are meaningful collections with similar amino acid
physical chemistry, then the two-dimensional basis set should improve the clarity of this
figure. The authors should examine the consequences of using that two-dimensional basis
set, hydrophobicity and amino acid volume in coloring Fig. 3. It would be much more
persuasive if coloring were done on the basis of physico-chemically sound experimental
properties of the amino acids.
3. The authors skirt round another fundamental question they may be able to answer but
do not: the information in a codon is, by virtue of base-pairing and rotation symmetry,
identical to that in its anticodon so sense/antisense coding itself appears to be important
because the two strands of a nucleic acid constitute a group via their inverse
complementarity. To what extent does the sense/antisense coding hypothesis in
conjunction with other operations described help reduce the number of possible codes
to the SGC? What are the remaining constraints necessary for this reduction? Are any of
these ideas connected?
4. A related thought is that the authors should be able to better clarify the relationship
between the RNY code and the sense/antisense coding hypothesis of Rodin and Ohno.
The latter has considerable experimental support from the recent work validating that
hypothesis. The authors should explain that sense/antisense genes require, in addition to
RNY, YNR codons, so these two codon classes must have arisen simultaneously to allow
sense/antisense genes. Can an RNY/YNR code lead inevitably to the remaining sets of
codon-anticodon pairs?
view of the Literature
1. The literature reviewed is not current and should be updated. It fails to account for recent
work establishing relationships between the physical properties of the two classes of
amino acids (2), the specialization of coding properties in the acceptor stem and
anticodon (5) and the resulting synthesis of coding with protein folding (4). Indeed, it
would be remarkable if the significant differences between Class I and II mean amino acid
volumes and exposed surface areas in folded proteins (2; 4; 5) became evident in 6
dimensions.
2. A second important omission is recent experimental work (6) confirming the important
hypothesis that the two aaRS Classes have indeed descended from a single gene. This
material is relevant at several points in the manuscript where the experimental validation
of that hypothesis is considered. The sense/antisense ancestry of the code-decoding
machinery is now much more difficult to refute.
3. There is confusion between the sense/antisense coding hypothesis and the Rodin/Ohno
model for recruiting new codon/anticodon pairs, as the authors leave this distinction
ambiguous in several places in the MS. The most acute problem is the final sentence in
the first paragraph on page 4.
4. Along the same lines, it would be interesting to have the authors’ thoughts on the
symmetries implied by Fig. 2 of (4).
nor Points
manuscript is clearly written for the most part, though the group theoretical treatments may
difficult to follow for non-mathematicians. This is helped measurably by the simplifications
oduced in §2.3 and by the re-definition of the distance metric in terms of Cayley graphs.
eptions and suggestions are noted below:
1. On page 5, par 1, it might be clearer to use “Both authors” instead of “They” to refer to
the connection between sense/antisense coding and the incorporation of codons and
anticodons simultaneously.
2. On page 8, penultimate paragraph of §2, the comma following “maximum parsimony” is
unnecessary and confusing.
3. A similar confusion is caused by the comma on the top of page 11 following “The
evolutionary phylogenies of synthetases”.
4. The authors use, but not before defining, the confusing phrase “polar requirement of
each amino acid”. That must be defined clearly early in the manuscript (see also
discussion above about whether or not the polar requirement is an appropriate way to
characterize amino acid properties).
5. Further pursuant to Fig. 3, is there any significance to the fact that the Cayley graph of
group Dih4 suggested for use in interchanging whole characters is undirected?
6. The authors are conscientious about multiple sources of confusion. Confusion remains,
however, about two related phenomena: codon/anticodon pairs, and the aaRS Class
division. If the authors could carefully check the ms for places where such confusion might
arise, it would further avoid confusion.
7. To a color-blind reader, the different colors in Table 5 are easily missed. Bold face for one
of the two sets, might alleviate the problem.
8. The brief discussion of the Delarue model of descent by binary choices is quite novel and
welcome, because that model accords with intuitive accounts of codon degeneracy and,
by retaining a set of stop codons continuously, it provides a rationale for the continuous
stability of translation as the code differentiated progressively to its present state,
including the inclusion of pyrrolysine. The discussion, however, leaves us hanging without
unifying the Delarue and Rodin models. Can these two models be reconciled in 6
dimensions or perhaps even higher?
e mission of this paper is to argue that the genetic code, rather than being a frozen accident,
deed the very special product of mathematical constraints and physical chemistry. In my view
authors successfully extend the importance of that proposal into quite distinct new areas.
that reason, it may eventually be regarded as a landmark if the authors can resolve some or
he various issues outlined above.
References
Carter CW, Jr. 2008. Heredity 100:339-40
Wolfenden R, Lewis CA, Yuan Y, Carter CW, Jr. 2015. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 112 7484-
8
Wolfenden R. 2007. Journal of General Physiology 129:357–62
Carter CWJ, Wolfenden R. 2016. RNA Biology 13:145–51
Carter CW, Jr., Wolfenden R. 2015. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 112 7489-94
Martinez L, Jimenez-Rodriguez M, Gonzalez-Rivera K, Williams T, Li L, et al. 2015. J. Biol.
Chem. 290:19710–25
Appendix C
November 10th, 2016
Andrew Dunn
enior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
n behalf of
Katrin Rittinger, Royal Society Open Science
Manuscript ID RSOS-160458
Title: A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic Code
Dear Dr. Andrew Dunn:
Thank you for your email dated September 22, 2016 and for the referee’s comments.
We start by thanking the referees for their careful reading of our paper and for helping us to
mprove its quality and presentation.
lease find enclosed with this letter the revised version of the manuscript.
This new corrected version of the manuscript includes the main text with 3 figures and 5
ables. We have carefully read the reviewers’ comments of our previous version of the
manuscript, and we have rewritten the paper with their suggestions in mind. Both reviewers
aised a series of good questions. We have taken into account the comments of both referees
modifying the paper accordingly. The modifications in the manuscript are highlighted in red
olor, and the answers in this reply letter are marked in red.
We give below the specifics of our response to the reviewers and answer their comments in
he same order as their reports.
Reviewer 1
Unresolved conceptual issues
. The automorphisms presented in Tables 4 and 5 accomplish most of what the authors seek
nd are therefore important. However, they do not appear, either from application of the
utomorphisms, from Figures 2 and 3, or from discussion elsewhere, to account for the fact
hat tryptophan and tyrosine are activated by Class I synthetases while phenylalanine is
ctivated by a Class II synthetase. This may or may not vitiate some of their analysis, as the
lass division is not exactly equivalent to the distinction between the acceptor stem groove
ecognized by a synthetase because the synthetases for aromatic amino acids appear to
ecognize their tRNAs from opposite sides of their tRNAs from the rest of their respective
lasses. The root of this problem is that aaRS Class is defined by common genetic origin,
whereas divisions in the codon tables appear to reflect groove recognition on the cognate
RNAs. In any case, the authors should discuss this point to clarify the division into
ynthetase classes more clearly, and to identify the aromatic amino acids clearly as outliers,
erhaps because they were recruited latest to complete the standard genetic code as suggested
y the Delarue model, among others.
he and Tyr are ambiguous and we have marked them with an asterisk in Table 3. Trp belongs
ndeed to Class I.
. An important source of ambiguity is that the choice of four ranges of polar requirement to
dentify with subgroups in Fig. 3 is, itself, a somewhat ambiguous choice, which may have
een conditioned by a desire to color Fig. 3 as they did. Further, “Polar requirement” appears
o be related to Wolfenden’s hydrophobicity scale (2; 3), but is somewhat uncertain as
hysical property of amino acids. The work of Carter and Wolfenden relating vapor and
olvent transfer equilibria to the genetic code, represent a far less ambiguous two-
imensional basis set for characterizing the twenty amino acids in terms of physico-chemical
Gibbs free energies (2; 4; 5). That work emphasized the importance of the two-dimensional
asis set for predicting the exposed surface areas in folded proteins. If the subgroups the
uthors identify in Fig. 3 are meaningful collections with similar amino acid physical
hemistry, then the two-dimensional basis set should improve the clarity of this figure. The
uthors should examine the consequences of using that two-dimensional basis set,
ydrophobicity and amino acid volume in coloring Fig. 3. It would be much more persuasive
f coloring were done on the basis of physico-chemically sound experimental properties of
he amino acids.
The coloring was not conditioned by a desire but by the actual scales proposed by Woese et
l. [43]. The sentence: “PR scales fall into 4 categories” was replaced by “PR was scaled into
categories [43].”
We have used the 2D basis set for characterizing the 20 amino acids in terms of polar/non
olar as given in reference (Wolfenden et al. PNAS 112: 7484 (2015)) and the result is shown
elow (Figure R1). There is not a nice partition of 2 colors according to the hydrophobicity
cale in the whole 6D-hypercube. However, there is symmetry in each of the 4-dimensional
ypercubes. It means that during the evolution of the genetic code there were modules of
mino acids that appeared according to sense/antisense rules.
igure R1
We also calculated the graph of amino acids according to the methods employed in reference
21]. Considering the topology of the 6D-hypercube, a graph colored according to the
ydrophobicity scale of amino acids is shown in Figure R2. Note that polar amino acids (red)
re all connected (without being interrupted by a non-polar amino acid). In contrast, most
on-polar amino acids (black) are connected, except Trp and Cyst. Then, we do not obtain
symmetrical graph.
igure R2
. The authors skirt round another fundamental question they may be able to answer but do
ot: the information in a codon is, by virtue of base-pairing and rotation symmetry, identical
o that in its anticodon so sense/antisense coding itself appears to be important because the
wo strands of a nucleic acid constitute a group via their inverse complementarity. To what
xtent does the sense/antisense coding hypothesis in conjunction with other operations
escribed help reduce the number of possible codes to the SGC? What are the remaining
onstraints necessary for this reduction? Are any of these ideas connected?
Undoubtedly, the sense/antisense coding played a pivotal role in the early stages of the
ormation of the code.
We thank the reviewer for her/his question about the possible numbers of genetic codes. We
ave made a series of calculations and we present some preliminary results.
As we mentioned in the manuscript there could be 2164 <U+F0BB> 4 <U+F0B4>1084. If we assume 2 sets of 32
omplementary triplets where each set codes for 10 amino acids, we would have
1032 <U+F0B4>1032 <U+F03D> 1064 possible codes. Then we have a reduction of the order of 4 <U+F0B4>1020. Albeit
his is a significant reduction it is still a very large number. Many more biological constraints
re necessary.
Reduction on the number of possible genetic code according to its degeneracy
According to the multinomial coefficient:
<U+F0E6> n <U+F0F6> n!
<U+F0E7> <U+F0F7><U+F03D>
<U+F0E8> n1 , n2 ,...n k <U+F0F8> n1 !n2 !...nk !
This is the number of permutations of n objects in which n1 are indistinguishable, n2 are
ndistinguishable,…, and nk are indistinguishable. Considering the degeneracy of the SGC
we need to calculate:
64!
<U+F03D>
9
(2!) (3!) 2 (4!)5 (6!)3
2.316278295874198383354290667060208126761409719904245070233600000000000 <U+F0B4>1069
Then the probability of having a genetic code with the known degeneracy is very small:
((64!) / ((2!9 )(3!2 )(4!5 )(6!3 ))) / (2164 ) <U+F03D> 5.53039 <U+F0B4>10<U+F02D>16
Further reduction on the number of possible genetic code according to its degeneracy
The genetic code is, in essence, a surjective function. A function f : X <U+F0AE> Y is surjective if,
or each y <U+F0CE> Y , f ( x) <U+F03D> y for at least one x <U+F0CE> X . After some calculations we have found that
he number of surjective functions is: 7.379561559 <U+F0B4>1040. This is the whole number of
ossible coding functions, under the assumption that each amino acid, or the stop signal, is
nly coded by 1, 2, 3, 4 or 6 triplets. This number can still be further reduced in several ways.
Given the RNY code, there are 16 triplets and 8 di-codonic amino acids. Hence there are only
8! <U+F03D> 40320 surjective functions on the set RNY onto the set of the 8 primary amino acids.
We are assuming that the 16 codons are equally equipartitioned into binary sets, where the 2
members differ only in the 3rd nucleobase which is either C or U. Hence the probability of
ppearance of the RNY code, although transient, was very high.
. A related thought is that the authors should be able to better clarify the relationship between
he RNY code and the sense/antisense coding hypothesis of Rodin and Ohno. The latter has
onsiderable experimental support from the recent work validating that hypothesis. The
uthors should explain that sense/antisense genes require, in addition to RNY, YNR codons,
o these two codon classes must have arisen simultaneously to allow sense/antisense genes.
Can an RNY/YNR code lead inevitably to the remaining sets of codon-anticodon pairs?
Assuming a primeval RNY code, we have already shown that there are 2 evolutionary
athways that can lead to the SGC (5, 6). These 2 pathways are not only plausible but it
eems that they are highly robust (ongoing work). In addition, we have also shown that once
ou have reached the RNY code this code is frozen (23).
Review of the Literature
. The literature reviewed is not current and should be updated. It fails to account for recent
work establishing relationships between the physical properties of the two classes of amino
cids (2), the specialization of coding properties in the acceptor stem and anticodon (5) and
he resulting synthesis of coding with protein folding (4). Indeed, it would be remarkable if
he significant differences between Class I and II mean amino acid volumes and exposed
urface areas in folded proteins (2; 4; 5) became evident in 6 dimensions.
We have included all references suggested by the reviewer.
We did not find significant differences between Class I and II in regard to amino acid
olumes. We were also unable to find a relation with exposed surface areas in folded proteins
. A second important omission is recent experimental work (6) confirming the important
ypothesis that the two aaRS Classes have indeed descended from a single gene. This
material is relevant at several points in the manuscript where the experimental validation of
hat hypothesis is considered. The sense/antisense ancestry of the code-decoding machinery
s now much more difficult to refute.
We now include reference (6) which is [66] in the Introduction.
. There is confusion between the sense/antisense coding hypothesis and the Rodin/Ohno
model for recruiting new codon/anticodon pairs, as the authors leave this distinction
mbiguous in several places in the MS. The most acute problem is the final sentence in the
irst paragraph on page 4.
The RO-model does not explicitly specify how the codon/anticodon pairs were recruited. An
ttempt is made by the D-model. According to the present results the symmetrical model
rovides an alternative for the recruitment chronology of amino acids.
. Along the same lines, it would be interesting to have the authors’ thoughts on the
ymmetries implied by Fig. 2 of (4).
ymmetries reflect that the assignments between codons and amino acids are directly related
o the division of the genetic code into 2 classes of aaRSs. This binary division was
maintained during the evolution of the SGC. The sense/antisense hypothesis is entirely
ompatible with the primeval RNY code. Mathematically we have unleashed the
epresentation of the standard 2D table of the SGC into a 6D-hypercube which has enriched
ur understanding of several biological and mathematical properties of the SGC.
Mathematically, the RNY, RNR, YNR and YNY subcodes are 4-dimensional projections
tesseracts) of the 6D-hypercube NNN. Our symmetrical model departs from the D-model in
hese symmetrical considerations.
Exceptions and suggestions are noted below:
. On page 5, par 1, it might be clearer to use “Both authors” instead of “They” to refer to
he connection between sense/antisense coding and the incorporation of codons and
nticodons simultaneously.
We are citing the works of Rodin SN, Rodin SA and Delarue M. Therefore, we wrote: “These
uthors”.
. On page 8, penultimate paragraph of §2, the comma following “maximum parsimony” is
nnecessary and confusing.
ee Further Modifications.
. A similar confusion is caused by the comma on the top of page 11 following “The
volutionary phylogenies of synthetases”.
The comma has been omitted.
. The authors use, but not before defining, the confusing phrase “polar requirement of each
mino acid”. That must be defined clearly early in the manuscript (see also discussion above
bout whether or not the polar requirement is an appropriate way to characterize amino acid
roperties).
We moved some paragraphs of Section 4 to the Introduction. We also tried to sustain the use
f PR. Now it reads:
olar requirement (PR) is an abiotic feature of free amino acids in solution. PR is a
hysicochemical property of each amino acid, de<U+FB01>ned by their migration in paper
hromatographic experiments in aqueous solutions of nucleobases [43]. PR is directly related
o the organization of the codon table and its amino acids [44]. In addition, PR is related to
he partition of amino acid in a polar-nonpolar interface [45]. The SGC is also robust to errors
f single base mutations and this is reflected when PR is used as a metric of amino acid
imilarity [33, 46-47]. Moreover, the phenotypic graphs of amino acids exhibit disjoint
lusters of amino acids when their PR values are used [21]. The genetic code became
ptimized with respect to PR. By observing the microscopic environments of the amino acids
n binary solution, it is apparent that the PR is related to how an amino acid partitions across
polar-nonpolar interface. Several theoretical works have found a high degree of error
olerance in the genetic code when PR is used as a measure of amino acid similarity [33, 47,
4-65]. Polar/nonpolar interfaces may have played a role in the establishment or development
f the early genetic code. It is highly improbable that the genetic code became optimized
with respect to PR purely by chance.
. Further pursuant to Fig. 3, is there any significance to the fact that the Cayley graph of
roup Dih4 suggested for use in interchanging whole characters is undirected?
ndirect means in both directions.
. The authors are conscientious about multiple sources of confusion. Confusion remains,
owever, about two related phenomena: codon/anticodon pairs, and the aaRS Class division.
f the authors could carefully check the ms for places where such confusion might arise, it
would further avoid confusion.
Thanks to the suggested literature by Reviewer 1 we have clarified the codon/anticodon pairs,
nd the aaRS Class division.
. To a color-blind reader, the different colors in Table 5 are easily missed. Bold face for
ne of the two sets, might alleviate the problem.
The legend of Figure 3 now reads: “The 4-dimensional hypercubes are orange (upper); blue
left); red (lower); green (right); Stop codon are in black (UUA, UAG and UGA).”
. The brief discussion of the Delarue model of descent by binary choices is quite novel and
welcome, because that model accords with intuitive accounts of codon degeneracy and, by
etaining a set of stop codons continuously, it provides a rationale for the continuous stability
f translation as the code differentiated progressively to its present state, including the
nclusion of pyrrolysine. The discussion, however, leaves us hanging without unifying the
Delarue and Rodin models. Can these two models be reconciled in 6 dimensions or perhaps
ven higher?
We added in Discussion the following:
We have developed mathematical models for the RO-hypothesis and the D-genealogy. We
ighlight that these mathematical models are different despite the fact that they share the
undamental fact that the SGC can be divided by the 2 classes of aaRSs. We emphasize that
ur 6D-model is completely equivalent to the mathematical model of the RO-hypothesis. The
mathematical model of the SR-hypothesis underscores the differences with the other 3
models. The 6D-symmetrical model has been enriched by the RO-model and the RO-model
as acquired a sound mathematical structure. All presented models deal with the same
iological aspects of the SGC but differently. The 6D-structure has been exploited not only
or comparing different models but more importantly to give a step forward to unify models
nd reinforce (or weaken) models’ hypotheses.”
Reviewer 2:
. The main reason is the lack of biological content. It may be good and sound with respect
o the mathematical treatment, of which I do not understand much, but I consider that the
iochemist or biologist will not profit from it. I know this group’s work for quite a while and,
n the review of a previous paper of them (the editor of the journal was specific in asking for
he ‘applied’ character of the math in the paper), I made them to notice that, in spite of the
legant mathematics, this approach would become interesting only as long as it could be
pplied in evaluation of biologically relevant data or models, e. g., in offering itself as a tool
or comparisons between different biological models. This was not done. It seems that the
uthors got stuck in the dedication to the RNY model and don’t have eyes open to other
models. This kind of ‘autistic’ behavior is not uncommon in science, and is understandable
nd not bad in itself, but may be noticed without further qualifications.
We have now included the Self-Referential (SR) model for comparisons between different
iological models. Comparisons of the different models are made in the Discussion.
everal biological properties of the genetic code are reflected by symmetries of the 6D
ypercube: to wit, the general division of aaRS into 2 classes, polar requirement, and the
olarity according to (Woldenden et al. PNAS 112: 7484 (2015)) (see Figure R1) which is
ymmetric in each 4-dimensioanl hypercube but not in the whole 6D hypercube. It clearly
eflects a symmetry breaking process.
The demonstration that the RO- and the symmetric model are equivalent explicitly implies
hat both models share the same biological and mathematical properties.
The group actions were indeed useful for comparing different models such as the SR-model.
n fact, we have added the following paragraph in Discussion:
From the biological constraints of the self-referential model, that describes an anticodon
ode, with the omission of triplets ending with adenine, the group actions, required to
escribe the symmetries of this model, are given by the direct product K4 <U+F0B4> K4 <U+F0B4> 3 , where
he last set is the cyclic group of three elements that corresponds to the rotations of a triangle.
The cyclic groups are generated with one element so the biological interpretation of this
ction is ambiguous, in contrast to the generators of K 4 representing transitions and
ransversions. Another difference is that this model can only be fully described in 5
imensions. These differences in the mathematical properties of the SR-model with our 6-
imensional model show that they are non-equivalent and that there is no smooth way to
mathematically complete the SGC. Essentially, the problem lies in the fact that the group K 4
annot be obtained from 3 .
. They are now evaluating the Rodin-Ohno and the Delarue models only to the extent these
oincide with the algebraic symmetry aspect of their interest and expertise. The basis of the
Rodin-Ohno and the Delarue models may be considered biological due to being exercised
pon nucleic acid molecules, but the aspect considered in the paper is only the symmetrical,
erived from the complementariness property of the sense / antisense strands, applied to the
ynthetase classes (I / II, 10 each) or to the triplets (codon pairs or codon / anticodon; it seems
o be clear that they utilize the codon pair option, but I still have doubts on this). Other more
trictly biological - functional aspects of the nucleic acids are not taken into account, other
han the nearly crystalline structure of the code table and of the strand complementariness.
We followed the scientific method of falsifying both the mathematical RO-model and our
ymmetrical 6D-model. We were unable to do so. The result that both mathematical models
re equivalent is what we present in this manuscript. Previously, we tried to obtain this
orrespondence in 3D and failed [ref. 7 in the ms].
. I have also indicated earlier to them that they could proceed with some internal controls or
ests in the symmetry-search procedure. For instance, it could be said (therefore, tested) that
he same results would be obtained with their starting choice for the RNY set of codes or any
ther set of equivalent size, following the rows RNY, YNR, RNR, YNY or the columns
RAN, RGN, RCN, RUN, plus YAN, YGN, YCN, YUN, etc. The premise under test would
e that starting with any kind of a half-matrix you will get, through the same procedure, the
ull matrix. In case this is obtained – all options work the same, the relevance and merit of
he RNY model would not rely upon its symmetry properties, but only upon its biological
acking. The paper contains some reference to these different sets, and their possible inter-
ransformations, so that they might already have the answer to this question.
The automorphisms that interchange the partitions from the RO-model to the partitions of
he SR-model can easily be calculated, i.e., NNX <U+F0DB> NXN. But the SR-model deals with
inucleotides NN and the model assumes that wobbling is the source of the formation of
riplets. It starts with dinucleotides of anticodons not including adenine in the wobble
osition. We mentioned in Discussion how to model the set of principal dinucleotides
ncluding the wobbling phenomenon. See also reply of item 1 of Reviewer 2.
. Then we come to the biological aspects of the RNY model. I see many problems with it.
t does not offer a mechanism of encoding, in the same way the authors say of the error-
minimization procedure that is basically statistic. Both the error-minimization and the
rocedure the authors use now of producing symmetry groups with the Polar Requirement
alues are based, as the authors say, on abiotic properties of the amino acids, which only adds
o the lack of biological backing. It does not pinpoint a starting small set of codes, but starts
traight ahead from almost a full half of the codes, which is not a start after all; it is like
tarting already in the middle of the trajectory. The basis of the RNY proposition seems to
ave come from a consensus motif in tRNA sequences, which requires certification. I wonder
f this has been checked with the more recent data bases. I remember having asked Savio T
arias, who also works in the group, about this motif in his tRNA ancestral sequence
econstructions. He said he would be searching for this; the lack of answer might be
nderstood as a negative answer. Then, the triplet motif in the premise might be considered
ague. This RNY hypothesis may have a prebiotic backing due to the partial coincidence
with the Val-Ala-Gly-Asp GNC row of the most abundant prebiotic amino acids, therefore
eing like an extension of that. The search for simpler beginnings led Edward N Trifonov to
oncentrate on the simpler portion of that set, namely the Ala-Gly couple, which was a nice
ttempt.
n the present work, we are not dealing with the problem of the origin of the SGC which
tarted with encodings. The set of 16 codons of the RNY are:
<U+F0EC>AAC, AAU, AGC, AGU, ACU, ACC, AUU, AUC, <U+F0FC>
<U+F0ED> <U+F0FD>
<U+F0EE>GAC, GAU, GG C, G G U, G C U, G CC, G U U, G U C <U+F0FE>
where principal dinucleotides (pDiN) are underlined according to the SR-model. Perhaps we
re missing some aspects of the SR-model, but note that the 3rd wobbling base (a pyrimidine)
makes the RNY code and SR-model compatible. However, we acknowledge that this
ompatibility is not kept for the whole SGC.
The abiotic support of the RNY primeval code is in agreement with observations on abundant
mino acids in Miller’s sets [Miller SL, et al. Origin of organic compounds on the primitive
arth and in meteorites. J. Mol. Evol. 9, 59–7 (1976); Lazcano A, Miller SL. The origin and
arly evolution of life: Prebiotic chemistry, the pre-RNA world, and time. Cell 1996, 85,
93–98] and in the chronology of appearance of amino acids according to Trifonov’s review
Trifonov EN. Consensus temporal order of amino acids and evolution of the triplet code.
Gene 2000, 261, 139–51].
. I copy here some comments I’ve been hearing, about the plethora of models for the genetic
ode. People seem to be already tired of having so many, while very few of them would be
ble to be put to tests and brought to the biochemistry labs. For this purpose, they need to be
imple and clear, e. g., starting with few codes, instead of a half of all codes. Besides this,
ttempts are needed to conjoin different models into smaller sets of groups. This paper is an
ttempt in this direction but, as said above, it is poor in biology so that it runs the risk of
emaining isolated.
The result that the RO-model and the symmetrical models are one and the same, implies that
he symmetrical models inherits the biological aspects of the RO-model and the RO-model
cquires the same symmetrical properties. We have found a mathematical model for the RO-
ypothesis in 6D which is compatible with our symmetrical model.
. With respect to the synthetase classes, I see that the authors did not consider the atypical
ouple of class II, therewith preserving the 10/10 full symmetry that is adequate for the
ymmetry-based project. The atypical couple is PheRS – class II but acylating in the class I
mode, and LysRS – class II in some and I in other organisms. The couple is associated with
espect to the triplet constitution, forming a pair of the kind anticodon GAA: anticodon YUU.
ee reply to item 1 of Reviewer 1.
Note that the pairing is between anticodons, containing the wobble positions in a staggered
onfiguration in the strands, not the straight and simple complementariness used by the
uthors in their tables. The biochemical reason for the atypical behavior would be the large
ize of the amino acids (the only large amino acids in class II) with respect to the synthetase
lass II active site small pockets. The picture emerging is that at the time of encoding Lys
nd Phe, synthetases class II were the ones available more easily but were not adequate for
he large amino acids so that alternative procedures had to be looked for: PheRS adopted the
eculiar torsion that led to the acylation in the class I mode; LysRS class II arranged its own
mode in some organisms but other organisms found the more adequate way of utilizing the
lass I larger pockets.
ee reply to item 2 of Reviewer 1.
A comment: We have always been amazed by the nature choice of wobbling i.e., the unsteady
ecognition of the third base of the anticodon. Wobble reduces the number of required
nticodons substantially. The wobbling property is related to a trade-off between efficiency
nd accuracy of translation [Johansson M., et al. PNAS 109: 131 (2012)].
. Delarue’s model seems to be very strange with respect to including stop signs from the
eginning and without any relationship to the initiation signs. Initiation and termination seem
o be the most complex of all codes, and suggestions are that they were added late, in the
DNA and mRNA worlds.
We do not find any biological reason to ascertain the precise moment of appearance of
nitiation and termination signals. According to our symmetrical model the stop codons
ppeared at the intermediate stages of the evolution of the SGC [refs 5, 7 in the ms].
We also agree with Reviewer 1 when she/he states that: “Delarue model of descent by binary
hoices is quite novel and welcome, because that model accords with intuitive accounts of
odon degeneracy and, by retaining a set of stop codons continuously, it provides a rationale
or the continuous stability of translation as the code differentiated progressively to its present
tate, including the inclusion of pyrrolysine.”
t stands to reason that once the catastrophe limit had to be surpassed there should be selective
ressures for the appearance of termination signals. The idea of having arbitrarily large
eptides is counterintuitive. These issues deserve further work.
. I wonder if the authors would be able to offer the readers some meaning – at least hints or
uesses, to be added to the 6-dimensions they are proud of having developed. I remain
ntrigued with the conversations I’m used to have with mathematicians, where one side gets
tuck with formulas and algorithms while the other keeps wishing for images and drawings,
nd the interactions does not progress further. I wonder if some of the most important
imensions could be, e.g., the three nucleotides in codes, amino acid size, amino acid
reference in protein conformations, amino acid preference in nucleic acid binding motifs of
roteins, and so on.
Reviewer 1 provided several references that impinge directly, among other factors, on amino
cid size, amino acid preference in protein conformations, amino acid preference in nucleic
cid binding motifs of proteins. These references are cited in the ms.
. The case for symmetries is a good one. If a symmetry is found relevant for natural
henomena, these natural processes would be greatly simplified, due to the repetitiveness
nserted by the symmetry. Most common in biology is the finding of modularity, which is
xpected as an interesting outcome from the symmetry searches. I wonder if the authors’
ower-dimension cubes might evolve into modules of a concerted model, as complex as it
might become in the 6-dimensions.
We have colored the 6D-hypercube according to the correlation between the hydropathy of
mino acids residues and the hydropathy of dinucleotides [20] (Figure R3). Note that most
ydrophobic amino acids (yellow hypercube) is symmetric. However, there are not
ymmetrical patterns neither in the whole 6D-hypercube nor in the remaining three 4D-
ypercubes.
igure R3
Hydrophilic (black); Hydro-apathetic (red); Moderately hydrophobic (red); Hydrophobic
yellow); Stop codons (Blue)
Further modifications
We have improved and clarified the mathematical description and notation of our approach
n: Mathematical Background and Delarue’s model.
All in all, we do thank the reviewers for their helpful and acute comments and criticisms; for
we feel that they have helped us to improve the quality and presentation of the paper. We
xpect that the present version of the manuscript answers all their concerns to their
atisfaction and the paper can now proceed to its publication.
Yours Sincerely,
Marco V. José PhD
Theoretical Biology Group
nstituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México
Apartado Postal 70228 Ciudad Universitaria
4510 México D. F., México
Tel/fax= 01-52-555- 622-3894
Author for correspondence: Marco V. José
Email: marcojose@biomedicas.unam.mx;
marcovjose@gmail.com
ndix D
Review for Royal Society Open Science by Romeu Cardoso Guimarães
anuscript ID RSOS-160908, authors Marco V. José, Gabriel S. Zamudio and Eberto R. Morgado
A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic Code
uthors and the Journal, at your orders, I remain. Romeu.
.
Table 3 shows transliteration, not Transliteration creates problems of choices for
translation. If you want to work with the investigator. (1) In one of the 3´w positions
the synthetases = translation, involving
tRNA 3’ AAGw Phe 5´ UUYw: codon
the meanings of the triplets, you need
Phe 5’ UUUw 3´ randomizes so that
to consider the triplet structure that is
Lys 3’ wAAA complementary
defined by the synthetases = ´principal
tRNA 5’ wUUU strand codes for Lys
dinucleotide + wobblew´ <U+F0E0>
or Glu. Both Lys and
PheUUU* LysAAA CysUGU ThrACA tRNA 3’ AAGw Glu are luckily
PheUUC* GluGAA CysUGC AlaGCA concordant
Phe 5’ UUCw
LeuUUA X UAA X UGA Ser UCA hydrophilic (polar),
Glu 3’ wAAG
LeuUUG GlnCAA TrpUGG ProCCA but how to choose
tRNA 5’ wUUC
LeuCUU LysAAG ArgCGU ThrACG basic x acidic?
LeuCUC GluGAG ArgCGC AlaGCG
LeuCUA X UAG ArgCGA SerUCG tRNA 3’ CAYw Val 5´ GURw: codon 3´
LeuCUG GlnCAG ArgCGG ProCCG Val 5’ GUAw randomizes so that
IleAUU AsnAAU SerAGU ThrACU Tyr 3’ wCAU complementary
IleAUC AspGAU SerAGC AlaGCU tRNA 5’ wGUA strand codes for Tyr
IleAUA TyrUAU* ArgAGA SerUCU or His. How to choose
MetAUG HisCAU ArgAGG ProCCU tRNA 3’ CAYw between Tyr non-
ValGUU AsnAAC GlyGGU ThrACC Val 5’ GUGw polar, hydrophobic
ValGUC AspGAC GlyGGC AlaGCC (like Val) and His
His 3’ wCAC
ValGUA TyrUAC* GlyGGA SerUCC basic for some,
tRNA 5’ wGUG
ValGUG HisCAC GlyGGG ProCCC apathetic in my scale?
Problem (2) of evolutionary randomization in both lateral positions in the pair of triplets.
Both 3´ (wobble) are free to vary, but in different degrees according to the box (4 in the
tetracodonic, 2 in the dicodonic) they belong to. Only the central base pair is
constrained to a bona fide base pair. Therefore, the choices are many, up to the whole
set of amino acids per column of the matrix. How did the authors proceed the choices?
Phe and Tyr ambiguous?*. I did not get it; it seems to me that ambiguity is all over the transliterations. My
examination gives full respect to the synthetase specificity that is primarily directed to the principal
tide, which cannot be disrupted. This was conserved in full in the eight single-meaning boxes, but partially
he eight multi-meaning boxes, where the wobble position became discriminatory and gave origin to a full
teraction with the synthetases.
Codon complements, as used here, with letter by letter ´transliteration´, disrupt/ungroup the synthetase
gs. The latter are among the subject-matter of the paper, refer to translation proper, and should remain
d via the ´principal dinucleotide + wobble´ structure of the triplet boxes that are defined by the
ases. This is fully conserved, therefore easily seen, in the GlyGG/ProCC and ArgGC/AlaCG pairs of the table of
ondences, where both members of the pair are tetracodonic; conservation is partial in the other pairs of
where there were various instances and modes of splitting. Nonetheless, there were some conservations
meaningful such as SerAG/UC, MetAU/XUA (but these should really be compared in the different
ations of the helices, to make sure about what the underlying process is). Note that the initiation Met
stop signs X do not form pairs, only the elongation codes do (see my papers for the explanation of the
x iMet, Initiation] connection).
Please, check if this is being taken care of in the papers that assume translation of both strands of a
quence. It is possible that in natural occurrences of this phenomenon (viruses, phages etc.) the choices
en taken care of evolutionarily (concerted evolution of both strands, coevolution), but it is possible that
odins’ and Ohno’s papers, that only assume it to be occurring, the problem may have not been taken
adequately. WOW! Would this eventually require a full revision of all papers on the subject?
. I offer some empirical data-based doubts about the Rodins´and Ohno´s proposal of synthetase origins from
ands of one sequence, based on their catalytic pocket preferences that are very different. Class I prefers large
ynamic volume) amino acids, class II prefers smaller amino acids. The only two large (and hydropathy
s) amino acids of class II are of atypical synthetases. PheRS is atypical in aminoacylating in the class I mode
3´ -OH choice in the ribose): it may indicate that at the time of encoding Phe, there was no duplication of a
vailable so that it had to use a class II available, and this had to fold forcedly, to acylate in the class I mode.
the only synthetase with the peculiarity of being acylated by a class I enzyme in some organisms, class II in
When it is class II, and this was (arbitrarily or historically) chosen to compose the standard code - therewith
he ambiguity, it produces the exception of having a class II enzyme in a position (5´ Y anticodons) that is
f class I (anticodons LeuYAA, Trp, Gln, Glu, Met, ArgYCU). This is similar to the ambiguity of PheRS, a class II
in the column where all others (Met, Ile, Val, Leu) are class I. Only the Self-Referential Model detects this pair
5´<U+0001D44C><U+0001D448><U+0001D448>
odons Lys-5´YUU:Phe-5´GAA , in the same way as it detects the pair of Ser anticodons Ser-
3´<U+0001D434><U+0001D434><U+0001D43A>
5´<U+0001D441><U+0001D43A><U+0001D434>
er5´NCU (note that this was somewhat hidden also, revealed only by the hydropathy correlation graph
3´<U+0001D448><U+0001D436><U+0001D441>
ST et al´s paper in OLEB 2007). We may be witnessing here a psychological drive to find symmetries where
ays they were not there.
It is difficult to imagine a pocket for small amino acids in class II being strand-complementary to a pocket for
ino acids in class I. The other part in the questioning of the suggestion of transliteration is the involvement of
archer´s choice for the kind of amino acid that would be adequate for the purpose of fitting each other´s
ies for building the enzyme pockets. I say this because there is no evidence that there would have been
nary adaptations via numerous selection cycles of concerted evolution (coevolution) of the two strands
as coding strands, to obtain the two ´complementary´ pockets.
Note also that the symmetry in equal number of enzymes in each class may be questioned on other
. Ribas de Pouplana tried to develop a model on this basis, with limited success only, and commented on
RS ambiguity, plus some other problems with the enzyme 3D conformations. There are no papers
ng on how the supposed symmetry would have arisen, e. g., via concerted duplications upon the binding
nzymes of different classes on one same tRNA substrate, as suggested by Ribas de Pouplana. Some
edness is also supposed to have happened in the model of Wong´s coevolution between tRNAs and
cid biosynthesis pathways, but also with limited success. Otherwise, all chronologies of amino acid
g do not suggest the concertedness. Therefore, the ´equal´ number of enzymes in each class may remain
ined, as a possible ´coincidence´, until new data come up, and serve as an intriguing aspect of the code
e. Otherwise, the equal numbers may not be equal at all, as indicated by the two atypical class II: in this
e numbers are 8 typical class II, 2 atypical class II, 10 typical class I (8:2:10); could the 2 atypical be added
f the classes, to sum 10:10 or 8:12?
. The RNY hypothesis should be already about 4 decades old and did not progress in the lab, except in
g, such as this one followed here. It would be more interesting if it could pinpoint a smaller set of encodings
with. Starting with 8 amino acids is not a start at all, it is already almost halfway to the whole code. There are
odels that take smaller versions of it, such as the GlyAlaAspVal or the GlyAla, which have the advantage of
ng to the higher thermal stability of the possible choice for the GNC triplets.
I would like to propose the authors to proceed a test of their own hypothesis. I would think this test
already have occurred to many. They developed a way of filling the whole matrix with rightward and
d slippages introduced upon the ´original´ (they call it ´primeval´) RNY, which are at the two bottom rows
atrix. By the way, the second ANY row is not very good to accompany the GNC row due to lower thermal
; the CNG row would be better on these grounds, and would do good to complete the set of central rows.
ith other starting sets of this same size could be done, e. g., with the two upper rows, or the two central
ill more, for completion, do it with the two left columns, the two right columns, or the two central ones.
the tests would produce the same filling up of the whole matrix of triplets whatever are the starting sets,
s a property of the matrix itself, irrespective of what the meanings of them are. Therefore, it does not
est the different chronologies of encodings which are the different models for the code formation. It just
t, whenever the encodings reach that size, of filling two rows or two columns, irrespective of the
gs, the path to fill the whole matrix could have followed the backward and forward slippages process.
. Is it possible to indicate what would be the 6 dimensions? It would be interesting for the understanding
gist and biochemists. Could a dimension be one base, one base pair, one amino acid….? It could also be
etase, a tRNA, the anticodon, the amino acid, the codon, the ribosome…
. The project is to produce a unified model for the genetic code, but it seems to me that it is biased in
some specific kinds of symmetry-yielding models, therewith dismissing those that do not produce their
d kinds of symmetries. If this is the case, please see that the anticodon modules in the self-referential
re asymmetric inside but symmetrically repeated four times: 1 GGR:YCY, 2 GAR:YUY, 3 GCR:YGY, 4
Y; the general structure is GNR:YNY. The exclusion of 5´A from the anticodons now receives a function,
of creating the intra-module symmetry-breaking event for facilitation of the encoding process. I see that
-referential model has been considered in the discussion but, unfortunately, my mathematical
und is not enough for any technical comment on the validity of their choices for the 6-dimensional over
mensional descriptions.
It is also of note that the self-referential model considers important for the encoding process the
-complementary kinds of triplets (listed in the four modules above, R and R or Y and Y in the lateral
s of the triplets), leaving the self-complementary kinds of triplets (R in one Y in the other lateral
) for other and later functions. Such differentiation refers only to the anticodons, which are the
ents of encoding, that is, where there are the tRNAs and the synthetases that establish the
ondences between the triplet codes and the meanings. We indicate that it is here, in the encoding
that the structure of the code should be looked at, not in the system of decoding the mRNA codons. In
se, the symmetry that may be looked at in the 4-fold degenerate wobble position of codons is a
ry occurrence, allowed by the wobbling properties, while the asymmetry in the just 3-fold degenerate
position of anticodons is primary, with the function of facilitating the encoding process. According to this
e, the authors should not judge the quality of the results on the basis of a higher quality or value of
ries, since they are secondary, arising with the formation of mRNAs and only allowed by the wobble
ies, not determinants of them. It is also of note that the distinction between self- and nonself-
mentary triplets may not be important in the codon context.
. The measures of polar requirement of amino acids refer to chemical properties of the whole molecules
on, and the authors rightly recognize it, but the code treats of protein synthesis by cells. The question
put: which is the right measure to utilize? Those of amino acids before they are utilized by the
ases, those of the amino acids inside the synthetase pockets or those of the amino acid residues in
s? I don´t have experience on the amino acids inside the enzyme pockets, but it is known, from the work
and Doolittle 1982 onwards, of the hydrophobicity-hydrophilicity scales of amino acid residues in
s (called by them, generally, hydropathy) - revised in Farias ST et al. OLEB 2007, which introduces
ces and lead to a new model for the genetic code structure and formation. It is suggested to the authors
y should at least evaluate and put to test the new measures, that are biologic. Otherwise, the paper may
terest to mathematicians only, with no link to biology. The function of the genetic code is ´to guarantee
ty in the sequences of proteins – which are the main working components of cells, and of the
ondent nucleic acid sequences – which are the memory sequences for building the proteins, including the
y-retrieval and processing mechanisms´. Therefore, the genetic code should not be evaluated on the
abiotic characters or properties.
. The same problem, of applicability and interest to biology, remains with respect to the processes
in transliteration from one strand into the other in a double strand, where the identity of the codes may
or shuffled. It should be noted, I repeat, that translation involves the synthetase specificity that
ishes a structure inside the triplets ´principal dinucleotide + wobble´.
aa
5´
w, wobble is
3´in codons,
5´in anticodons
5´ w w w
central base pair
3´
In cases of coding by both strands – in overlap, there should be a lengthy evolutionary process
ted evolution, coevolution) of adjusting the specificity needed for function by choosing among the
-pairing possibilities, and at both wobble positions, those adequate for function. Possibilities are one for
cipal dinucleotide, up to four in the wobble position in the codes in tetracodonic boxes - with a single
g, up to two in the wobble position in the codes in boxes where there are two meanings. Please check
s was managed by the Rodins and Ohno.
See how transliteration differs from translation. The drawing above is also the same utilized in the
of anticodons, in the self-referential model (below).
aa 5´ w aa
January 13th, 2017
Andrew Dunn
enior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
n behalf of
Katrin Rittinger, Royal Society Open Science
Manuscript ID RSOS-160458
Title: A Unified Model of the Standard Genetic Code
Dear Dr. Andrew Dunn:
Thank you for your email dated January 4th, 2016 and for the referee’s comments.
We thank the referees for their patience and careful reading of our paper and for helping us
o improve its quality and presentation.
lease find enclosed with this letter the revised version of the manuscript.
We have carefully read the reviewers’ comments of our previous version of the manuscript,
nd we have rewritten the paper with their suggestions in mind. Reviewer 1 found
onsiderable merit for publication in Open Science. Reviewer 2 no longer rejects the
manuscript but he formulated 7 Queries, most of them to ponder. Our reply is brief and
oncise. Modifications in the manuscript are highlighted in red color, and the answers in
his reply letter are marked in red.
We give below the specifics of our response to the reviewers and answer their comments in
he same order as their reports.
Reviewer 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_9
found considerable merit in the first submission of this manuscript, and the authors have
esponded thoughtfully to each of the concerns raised in my initial review. Their responses
ow merit publication in Open Science. I elaborate below questions that remain, having to
o with the effort to connect the group theoretic models to chemically meaningful metrics
f amino acid behavior. The authors have conscientiously covered these issues in their
emarks, and their response suffices to convince me that whatever differences remain are
ikely important clues to the evolution of the genetic code. I reiterate my feeling that the
mportance of this contribution may increase substantially in time; it is a completely novel
ttempt to find a rationale for the puzzling arrangement of the coding table according to the
wo classes of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases that may eventually bring qualitatively new
nsight.
My remaining concern has to do with the fact that the 6D representation has projections
hat are consistent with the “polar requirement”, an empirical scale unrelated to either of the
wo transfer equilibria that best represent the partitioning of amino acids between pure
hases, rather than between a pure phase and cellulose. I have repeated the computations
he authors describe in their response to my initial review, and, found to my surprise,
recisely what they report: there is indeed no obvious relationship between the PR and
ither of the two sets of transfer equilibria; nor is there any correlation between the PR and
he exposure of amino acids in folded proteins. In my mind, there are two main
ossibilities: (i) the polar requirement represents an unanticipated property of the 20 amino
cids that points to a deeper understanding of the code, or (ii) the coloring of the four
rojected hypercubes according to the polar requirement is a red herring unrelated to the
hysical chemistry of the amino acids. It may indeed be worth discovering which of these
wo possibilities makes more sense.
We are thankful to the reviewer for the appreciation of our contribution. We have added the
ollowing remark in Discussion:
Polar requirement is an empirical scale unrelated to either of the two transfer equilibria
hat best represent the partitioning of amino acids between pure phases, rather than between
pure phase and cellulose. PR seems to be also unrelated to other measures such as
ydropathy. Further experimental work is needed to clarify these issues.”
Reviewer 2:
Query 1.
Table 3 shows transliteration, not translation. If you want to work with the synthetases =
ranslation, involving the meanings of the triplets, you need to consider the triplet structure
hat is defined by the synthetases = ´principal dinucleotide + wobblew´. Transliteration
reates problems of choices for the investigator. (1) In one of the 3´w positions Phe 5´
UUYw: codon 3´ randomizes so that complementary strand codes for Lys or Glu. Both Lys
nd Glu are luckily concordant hydrophilic (polar), but how to choose basic x acidic? Val
´ GURw: codon 3´ randomizes so that complementary strand codes for Tyr or His. How to
hoose between Tyr non-polar, hydrophobic (like Val) and His basic for some, apathetic in
my scale?
roblem (2) of evolutionary randomization in both lateral positions in the pair of triplets.
Both 3´ (wobble) are free to vary, but in different degrees according to the box (4 in the
etracodonic, 2 in the dicodonic) they belong to. Only the central base pair is constrained to
bona fide base pair. Therefore, the choices are many, up to the whole set of amino acids
er column of the matrix. How did the authors proceed the choices?
he and Tyr ambiguous?*. I did not get it; it seems to me that ambiguity is all over the
ransliterations. My mode of examination gives full respect to the synthetase specificity that
s primarily directed to the principal dinucleotide, which cannot be disrupted. This was
onserved in full in the eight single-meaning boxes, but partially lost in the eight multi-
meaning boxes, where the wobble position became discriminatory and gave origin to a full
riplet interaction with the synthetases.
Codon complements, as used here, with letter by letter ´transliteration´, disrupt/ungroup the
ynthetase meanings. The latter are among the subject-matter of the paper, refer to
ranslation proper, and should remain grouped via the ´principal dinucleotide + wobble´
tructure of the triplet boxes that are defined by the synthetases. This is fully conserved,
herefore easily seen, in the GlyGG/ProCC and ArgGC/AlaCG pairs of the table of
orrespondences, where both members of the pair are tetracodonic; conservation is partial
n the other pairs of boxes, where there were various instances and modes of splitting.
Nonetheless, there were some conservations that are meaningful such as SerAG/UC,
MetAU/XUA (but these should really be compared in the different conformations of the
elices, to make sure about what the underlying process is). Note that the initiation Met and
he stop signs X do not form pairs, only the elongation codes do (see my papers for the
xplanation of the [Stop, X x iMet, Initiation] connection).
lease, check if this is being taken care of in the papers that assume translation of both
trands of a same sequence. It is possible that in natural occurrences of this phenomenon
viruses, phages etc.) the choices have been taken care of evolutionarily (concerted
volution of both strands, coevolution), but it is possible that in the Rodins’ and Ohno’s
apers, that only assume it to be occurring, the problem may have not been taken care of
dequately. WOW! Would this eventually require a full revision of all papers on the
ubject?
We simply followed the Rodin-Ohno tables (both uncorrected and corrected) which turns
ut to be the textbook Standard Genetic Code. We appreciate the witty comments and
bservations. Yet they do not a have a direct bearing on our manuscript.
Query 2. I offer some empirical data-based doubts about the Rodins´and Ohno´s proposal
f synthetase origins from both strands of one sequence, based on their catalytic pocket
references that are very different. Class I prefers large (hydrodynamic volume) amino
cids, class II prefers smaller amino acids. The only two large (and hydropathy extremes)
mino acids of class II are of atypical synthetases. PheRS is atypical in aminoacylating in
he class I mode
the 2´x 3´ -OH choice in the ribose): it may indicate that at the time of encoding Phe, there
was no duplication of a class I available so that it had to use a class II available, and this
ad to fold forcedly, to acylate in the class I mode. LysRS is the only synthetase with the
eculiarity of being acylated by a class I enzyme in some organisms, class II in others.
When it is class II, and this was (arbitrarily or historically) chosen to compose the standard
ode - therewith hiding the ambiguity, it produces the exception of having a class II enzyme
n a position (5´ Y anticodons) that is typical of class I (anticodons LeuYAA, Trp, Gln,
Glu, Met, ArgYCU). This is similar to the ambiguity of PheRS, a class II enzyme in the
olumn where all others (Met, Ile, Val, Leu) are class I. Only the Self-Referential Model
5' YUU
etects this pair of anticodons Lys-5´YUU:Phe-5´GAA , in the same way as it
3' AAG
5' NGA
etects the pair of Ser anticodons Ser- 5´NGA:Ser5´NCU , (note that this was
3'UCN
omewhat hidden also, revealed only by the hydropathy correlation graph in Farias ST et
l´s paper in OLEB 2007). We may be witnessing here a psychological drive to find
ymmetries where nature says they were not there.
t is difficult to imagine a pocket for small amino acids in class II being strand-
omplementary to a pocket for large amino acids in class I. The other part in the
uestioning of the suggestion of transliteration is the involvement of the researcher´s choice
or the kind of amino acid that would be adequate for the purpose of fitting each other´s
ecessities for building the enzyme pockets. I say this because there is no evidence that
here would have been evolutionary adaptations via numerous selection cycles of concerted
volution (coevolution) of the two strands working as coding strands, to obtain the two
complementary´ pockets.
Note also that the symmetry in equal number of enzymes in each class may be questioned
n other grounds. Ribas de Pouplana tried to develop a model on this basis, with limited
uccess only, and commented on the PheRS ambiguity, plus some other problems with the
nzyme 3D conformations. There are no papers informing on how the supposed symmetry
would have arisen, e. g., via concerted duplications upon the binding of two enzymes of
ifferent classes on one same tRNA substrate, as suggested by Ribas de Pouplana. Some
oncertedness is also supposed to have happened in the model of Wong´s coevolution
etween tRNAs and amino acid biosynthesis pathways, but also with limited success.
Otherwise, all chronologies of amino acid encoding do not suggest the concertedness.
Therefore, the ´equal´ number of enzymes in each class may remain unexplained, as a
ossible ´coincidence´, until new data come up, and serve as an intriguing aspect of the
ode structure. Otherwise, the equal numbers may not be equal at all, as indicated by the
wo atypical class II: in this case, the numbers are 8 typical class II, 2 atypical class II, 10
ypical class I (8:2:10); could the 2 atypical be added to any of the classes, to sum 10:10 or
:12?
We mention in the manuscript (page 4) that: “Polarity and size are used to distinguish
etween the 2 classes of amino acids [61, 63].”
n physics, groups are important because they describe the symmetries, which the laws of
hysics seem to obey. According to Noether’s theorem, every symmetry of a physical
ystem corresponds to a conservation law of the system. Analogously, a large part of our
work has contributed to determine the symmetry groups that not only describe the structure
f the SGC but also its evolution.
We cannot ignore the originality and importance of the splitting of the SGC into 2 classes
f aaRSs. We cannot also ignore the solid experimental background on the origin of the 2
aRSs classes (page 5 “…the Rodin-Ohno (RO) model has a sound experimental
ackground [41, 61-63, 66].”
We are unable to judge the published literature (e.g. works of Ribas de Pouplana). And yet
gain these comments do not lie into the scope of our present work. These well intended
omments open up hindrances for the enrichment of the discussion.
Query 3. The RNY hypothesis should be already about 4 decades old and did not progress
n the lab, except in modeling, such as this one followed here. It would be more interesting
f it could pinpoint a smaller set of encodings to start with. Starting with 8 amino acids is
ot a start at all, it is already almost halfway to the whole code. There are other models that
ake smaller versions of it, such as the GlyAlaAspVal or the GlyAla, which have the
dvantage of restricting to the higher thermal stability of the possible choice for the GNC
riplets.
would like to propose the authors to proceed a test of their own hypothesis. I would think
his test should already have occurred to many. They developed a way of filling the whole
matrix with rightward and leftward slippages introduced upon the ´original´ (they call it
primeval´) RNY, which are at the two bottom rows in the matrix. By the way, the second
ANY row is not very good to accompany the GNC row due to lower thermal stability; the
CNG row would be better on these grounds, and would do good to complete the set of
entral rows. Tests with other starting sets of this same size could be done, e. g., with the
wo upper rows, or the two central rows; still more, for completion, do it with the two left
olumns, the two right columns, or the two central ones. In case the tests would produce the
ame filling up of the whole matrix of triplets whatever are the starting sets, then it is a
roperty of the matrix itself, irrespective of what the meanings of them are. Therefore, it
oes not put to test the different chronologies of encodings which are the different models
or the code formation. It just says that, whenever the encodings reach that size, of filling
wo rows or two columns, irrespective of the meanings, the path to fill the whole matrix
ould have followed the backward and forward slippages process.
The reviewer recognizes that a progress on the RNY code is made in this manuscript after
0 years of its proposal. In regard to his proposal, with our method it is possible to generate
he whole genetic code by changing one base at a time. However, from this process there is
o clue in the way in which amino acids were assigned to each codon. The question of
ossible genetic codes should be treated separately. It has not escaped to our notice that the
RM lacks an explanation of how the dinucleotides formed the trinucleotides and to
odons. The chronology of appearance of codons is absent. This is a big biological hole in
he SRM!
We have added in Discussion the following paragraph: “The SR-model lacks an
xplanation of how the dinucleotides formed the codons. Did they appear gradually? Or did
odons appear simultaneously from a given set of principal dinucleotides? The chronology
f appearance of codons is absent.”
The dimensions of the model describe mutations acting on each of the bases of any given
riplet, starting from any non-void set of triplets.
Query 4. Is it possible to indicate what would be the 6 dimensions? It would be interesting
or the understanding of biologist and biochemists. Could a dimension be one base, one
ase pair, one amino acid….? It could also be a synthetase, a tRNA, the anticodon, the
mino acid, the codon, the ribosome…
We have added in Discussion the following statement: “Each dimension describes a type of
mutation, transition, and transversion as given by the Cayley graph, acting on each of three
ases of any codon. Consequently, we obtain the six dimensions.”
Query 5. The project is to produce a unified model for the genetic code, but it seems to me
hat it is biased in favor of some specific kinds of symmetry-yielding models, therewith
ismissing those that do not produce their preferred kinds of symmetries. If this is the case,
lease see that the anticodon modules in the self-referential model are asymmetric inside
ut symmetrically repeated four times: 1 GGR:YCY, 2 GAR:YUY, 3 GCR:YGY, 4
GUR:YAY; the general structure is GNR:YNY. The exclusion of 5´A from the anticodons
ow receives a function, which is of creating the intra-module symmetry-breaking event for
acilitation of the encoding process. I see that the self-referential model has been considered
n the discussion but, unfortunately, my mathematical background is not enough for any
echnical comment on the validity of their choices for the 6-dimensional over the 5-
imensional descriptions.
t is also of note that the self-referential model considers important for the encoding process
he nonself-complementary kinds of triplets (listed in the four modules above, R and R or Y
nd Y in the lateral positions of the triplets), leaving the self-complementary kinds of
riplets (R in one Y in the other lateral position) for other and later functions. Such
ifferentiation refers only to the anticodons, which are the components of encoding, that is,
where there are the tRNAs and the synthetases that establish the correspondences between
he triplet codes and the meanings. We indicate that it is here, in the encoding system, that
he structure of the code should be looked at, not in the system of decoding the mRNA
odons. In this sense, the symmetry that may be looked at in the 4-fold degenerate wobble
osition of codons is a secondary occurrence, allowed by the wobbling properties, while the
symmetry in the just 3-fold degenerate wobble position of anticodons is primary, with the
unction of facilitating the encoding process. According to this rationale, the authors should
ot judge the quality of the results on the basis of a higher quality or value of symmetries,
ince they are secondary, arising with the formation of mRNAs and only allowed by the
wobble properties, not determinants of them. It is also of note that the distinction between
elf- and nonself-complementary triplets may not be important in the codon context.
Considering a code in which the base A at the position 5’ is neglected, a model which
lgebraically fits in a 5-dimensional space is obtained. From here, there is no mathematical
peration to produce the complete 6-dimensional model. It is at this point in which there are
eep algebraic discrepancies between these two models. The SRM model in 5 dimensions
ndeed holds symmetries. However, in 5D the model provides neither a biological nor a
mathematical procedure to logically generate the complete code.
Query 6. The measures of polar requirement of amino acids refer to chemical properties of
he whole molecules in solution, and the authors rightly recognize it, but the code treats of
rotein synthesis by cells. The question remains put: which is the right measure to utilize?
Those of amino acids before they are utilized by the synthetases, those of the amino acids
nside the synthetase pockets or those of the amino acid residues in proteins? I don´t have
xperience on the amino acids inside the enzyme pockets, but it is known, from the work of
Kyte and Doolittle 1982 onwards, of the hydrophobicity-hydrophilicity scales of amino
cid residues in proteins (called by them, generally, hydropathy) - revised in Farias ST et al.
OLEB 2007, which introduces differences and lead to a new model for the genetic code
tructure and formation. It is suggested to the authors that they should at least evaluate and
ut to test the new measures, that are biologic. Otherwise, the paper may be of interest to
mathematicians only, with no link to biology. The function of the genetic code is ´to
uarantee specificity in the sequences of proteins – which are the main working
omponents of cells, and of the correspondent nucleic acid sequences – which are the
memory sequences for building the proteins, including the memory-retrieval and processing
mechanisms´. Therefore, the genetic code should not be evaluated on the basis of abiotic
haracters or properties.
n our previous response, we stated that: “We have colored the 6D-hypercube according to
he correlation between the hydropathy of amino acids residues and the hydropathy of
inucleotides [20] (Figure R3). Note that most hydrophobic amino acids (yellow
ypercube) are symmetric. However, there are not symmetrical patterns neither in the
whole 6D-hypercube nor in the remaining three 4D-hypercubes”. Figure R3
Hydrophilic (black); Hydro-apathetic (red); Moderately hydrophobic (red); Hydrophobic
yellow); Stop codons (Blue)
t is indeed true that there are no homologous symmetries to T1 and T2 , the ones that
nterchange the aaRRs class, in terms of hydropathy. There are no possible symmetries that
would allow for a switch between the hydropathy classes. Despite that, if the codon UGA,
abeled as Ss3 (stop signal #3) in Figure R3, is assigned to fit the category of “Moderately
Hidrophobic” (green), then there would be a symmetry given by the operation <U+F028> e, e, b <U+F029> that
will be invariant to hydropathy, i.e., the coloring of the cube will stay the same. This
ymmetry is of different nature to the ones corresponding to the aaRSs class and the ones
hat sets the transformation with the RO-model. The former fixes the category of
ydropathy whereas the latter exchange the class of aaRS and the RO-model with the
ymmetrical model.
n the same manner, using Carter’s polarity scale, setting UGA as a non-polar amino acid,
he transformation <U+F028> e, e, b <U+F029> , will be invariant to polarity. If, in addition, the other stop
odons are assigned to polar amino acids, the transformation <U+F028> e, e, a <U+F029> would be another
nvariant symmetry, as well as their composition. We have added the following paragraph
n Discussion:
When considering the hydropathy scale of aminoacids [71] there are no symmetries that
would interchange the four categories. However, if the codon UGA were associated to an
mino acid that falls into the category of “Moderately hydrophobic”, then, the
ransformation <U+F028> e, e, b <U+F029> would be invariant to the hydropathy classes. In the same manner,
when considering the polarity of amino acids [61, 63], it would be needed that UGA were a
on-polar amino acid, the transformation <U+F028> e, e, b <U+F029> , would be invariant to polarity. If, in
ddition, the other stop codons are assigned to polar amino acids, the transformation
<U+F028> e, e, a <U+F029> would be another invariant symmetry, as well as their composition. This means
hat a biological classification can also be interpreted as symmetries that would maintain
he classification.”
Query 7. The same problem, of applicability and interest to biology, remains with respect
o the processes utilized in transliteration from one strand into the other in a double strand,
where the identity of the codes may be lost or shuffled. It should be noted, I repeat, that
ranslation involves the synthetase specificity that distinguishes a structure inside the
riplets ´principal dinucleotide + wobble´.
n cases of coding by both strands – in overlap, there should be a lengthy evolutionary
rocess (concerted evolution, coevolution) of adjusting the specificity needed for function
y choosing among the wobble-pairing possibilities, and at both wobble positions, those
dequate for function. Possibilities are one for the principal dinucleotide, up to four in the
wobble position in the codes in tetracodonic boxes - with a single meaning, up to two in the
wobble position in the codes in boxes where there are two meanings. Please check how this
was managed by the Rodins and Ohno.
ee how transliteration differs from translation. The drawing above is also the same utilized
n the dimers of anticodons, in the self-referential model (below).
We consider that the SRM requires a rigorous mathematical modeling including all these
deas which are not explicitly included, at least, in the original version.
We expect that the present version of the manuscript answers all their concerns to their
atisfaction and the paper can now proceed to its publication.
Yours Sincerely,
Marco V. José PhD
Theoretical Biology Group
nstituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México
Apartado Postal 70228 Ciudad Universitaria
4510 México D. F., México
Tel/fax= 01-52-555- 622-3894
Author for correspondence: Marco V. José
Email: marcojose@biomedicas.unam.mx; marcovjose57@gmail.com
Society Open
