Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature
milk in a bear, the giant panda, Ailuropoda melanoleuca
Kate Griffiths, Rong Hou, Hairui Wang, Zhihe Zhang, Liang Zhang, Tong Zhang, David G.
Watson, Richard J. S. Burchmore, I. Kati Loeffler and Malcolm W. Kennedy
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150395.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150395
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 June 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 7 August 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 19 September 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 21 September 2015
Note: Transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150264.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The study presented by Griffiths and colleagues uses proteomics and metabolomics
methodologies to investigate compositional changes in milk from the colostrum stage to mature
milk production in giant pandas with respect to the unique life history of the species.
Furthermore, the authors completed a comparative analysis of the milk protein profiles of several
other species and compared them to milk of the giant panda. I believe studies such as these are
important because 1) relative to mature milk, little is known about the composition of colostrum
and 2) they provide the foundational data for much larger meta-analyses on the evolution of life
history/lactation strategies among mammals. The writing is clear and fairly straightforward and
the background literature is largely appropriate, although I do provide some additional
references that could be incorporated. Overall, I think this is an interesting study, however the
manuscript suffered from a few weaknesses. First, the introduction would benefit by additional
justification for the question. Second, the methods employed do not actually address the question
stated in the introduction. I provide a suggestion for how this could be remedied in the specific
comments below. Third, the concluding remarks introduce new concepts that are not addressed
in the introduction, hence the conclusion seems to be more of an extension of the introduction
rather than a summary of the main findings and significance of the study. More specific
comments are provided below:
Introduction:
P. 2, L. 46 This is a weak argument. “life styles”- if by this you are referring to being marine
mammals this is certainly true, but otherwise it is not. These groups have drastically different
reproductive ecologies (i.e. fasting vs. foraging while lactating, differences in duration of
mother/pup separation during maternal foraging, differences in breeding sites and timing of
reproduction, etc.) that would be expected to contribute to disparate lactation strategies. See
Oftedal et al. 1987 (citation below).
P. 3 L. 13-15 Indicate the placenta type of giant pandas here rather than on L 31-33.
P. 3 L. 16-18 As worded, this seems rather counter-intuitive to your main question. That is, if gut
closure is achieved less than 1 day after birth, why then would one expect an extended colostrum
phase? I think this could be clarified just by stating that there can be alternative routes of
intestinal absorption other than the paracellular route.
P. 3 L. 21 delete “true”
P. 3 L. 36-40 The question proposed here is “ do giant pandas have unusually prolonged
transition phase from colostrum to mature milk given the birth of highly atricial young?” This is a
question that could be addressed through a meta-analysis of the transition times of multiple
species that give birth to either altricial or precocial young, not through the methods employed in
this study. Instead, I think the question addressed through this study is whether components of
colostrum, the temporal changes in those components during the transition to mature milk, and
the transition time between colostrum and mature milk are consistent with what might be
expected for a species with highly altricial young and an anorexic perinatal period.
General comment: The introduction could be improved by 1) adding to the justification for the
above question. For example, incorporate an introduction to the general differences in
composition between colostrum and mature milk (i.e. colostrum higher in immunological factors,
mature milk typically greater fat and protein) and mention transition times in species for which
those data are available. 2) it would be great to add a priori hypotheses as to how you might
predict composition to change from colostrum to mature milk and the length of the transition
phase. 3) It think it would be more appropriate to examine the length of the transition phase in
3
relative terms rather than the absolute duration. In other words, look at the length of the
transition phase as a proportion of the entire lactation duration.
Methods:
It was quite difficult to keep track of the sample sizes and the lactation stages of milk samples
used for the different assays. For each new methodology, it would help to explicitly state which
species were assayed, the number of animals sampled, and at what lactation stage (i.e. colostrum,
early, peak, late lactation or something of the sort) the samples were collected. This should be
incorporated in all of the figures and tables (although some of them do have some of this
information, their inclusion is not consistent). Also, were the glands completely evacuated? How
many glands were emptied during milk collection? Were any samples pooled across multiple
days/individuals? Somewhere in the methods, I think it is important to address clearly how you
determined the difference between colostrum and mature milk (for instance based on the time
sequence of change in the constituents assayed)
P. 4 L. 1 after animals add (N=6). You can also add here that 2 of the 6 animals had milk collected
over multiple lactations
P. 4 L. 15-26 From what lactation stage were milk samples collected from species other than the
giant panda?
Results:
In this section, please add a statement that based on composition changes (or whatever factors
you use to differentiate between colostrum and mature milk), it appears as though the transition
phase was approximately 20-30 days long and include the length of the transition phase relative
to lactation duration.
P. 7 L. 55 delete “between”
Discussion:
P. 8 L. 20 delete “if any”. It’s clear from concluding remarks that there are data for at least a few
species. You can include humans too. There are numerous studies on compositional differences
between colostrum and mature milk in humans.
P. 9 L. 43 give a few examples of the protective functions
P. 9 L. 45-46 unclear, please re-word
P. 9 L. 58 what is meant by a lateral increase?
P. 9 L. 38-43 Please elaborate on why taurine is noteable
P. 9 L. 53-56 if this is conjecture, change wording, like by adding “It stands to reason then that
once normal nutritional conditions return…” If this is not conjecture and phenol sulphate has
been identified in milk previously please reference the article.
General comment: The discussion could be improved by comparing giant panda colostrum to
other species for which those data are available in addition to the relative length of the transition
phase. This comparative aspect is why it is vital to look at relative length of the transition phase
and not absolute as different species have different lactation lengths.
4
Concluding remarks:
P. 11 L. 3-18 Argument seems tangential to the framework established in the introduction.
Concluding remarks should start with the framework of the introduction and summarize main
points and significance of the results.
P. 11 L. 26-28 Move to discussion and elaborate
P. 11 L. 30-31 See previous comment about relative length of transition phase
P. 11 L. 33-35. It is curious to me why the manuscript ended with a question about how to define
the transition between colostrum and mature milk. This seems to undermine the study because
estimating the length of the transition phase is dependent on the ability to distinguish between
colostrum and mature milk!
References:
Oftedal, O.T., D.J. Boness and R.A. Tedman. 1987. The behavior, physiology, and anatomy of
lactation in the pinnipedia. Current Mammalogy 1: 175-245.
Tao et al. 2011. Evolutionary glycomics: characterization of milk oligosaccharides in primates.
Journal of Proteome Research 10: 1548-1557
Hinde, K. and Z.T. Lewis. 2015. Mothers littlest helpers. Science 348: 1427-1428. -and references
therein
Figure 1:
Are these mid-lactation samples?
Table S1:
“Parturition date in bold indicates the beginning of the lactation period from which samples were
collected.”
Figure S2:
Is labeled as figure S1 in the supplementary material
Figure S3:
Is labeled as figure S2 in the supplementary material
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
5
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supplementary files are clear and informative
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In their manuscript "Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature milk in a bear, the
giant panda, Ailuropoda melanoleuca" the authors provide new insights into the transition from
colostrum to mature panda milk to in part explain the immunological needs of extremely altricial
young ill-prepared for post-natal challenges due to limitations of ursidae placentation. While
these data are very dynamic and an important contribution to the literature, as currently written
the manuscript does not effectively situate the findings within the established literature of panda
milk, panda ecology and evolution, or explore comperands of extremely altricial young among
mammals- such as marsupials which have been well described in lactation biology. Key revisions
in the following areas will substantially expand the value of this paper to the readership:
Cite panda milk literature such as Lie et al. 1995, Nakamura et al. 2003, Fei et al 2000, Xuanzhen et
al. 2005. I was able to find these in ~60 seconds if a google scholar search and linking the findings
here to other evidence of exceptional features of panda lactation further substantiate the
arguments about strong selection on supporting a fragile neonate. Moreover, more information
about panda natural history would help the reader to understand the selection pressures on this
species.
The abstract and introduction did not orient the reader to the feature of the article that panda
milk would be compared to the milks of other species. I recommend creating a table that lists the
species, and relevant features highlighted in the introduction: placenta type, neonate altriciality
(or not), and the number of samples and timepoints collected. I could not clearly assess the extent
to which the milk samples were collected at comparable post-partum time-points either
absolutely or scaled to life-history.
The discussion read as a laundry list of constituents, their functions, and what was known about
them in other species. A stronger discussion would more effectively weave in ecology and life-
history (as was done well in the introduction), highlighting in greater detail potential for
convergent evolution in milk composition as a function of the key features- altriciality,
placentation, etc. I was disappointed to not see a more extended discussion of the role of milk
composition in the pouch young of marsupials, and similarities that may be present between
them and bears, or even more discussion within bears of different ecology and diet. Basically the
discussion read as under-developed to me.
Minor comment: P3L31 all mammals are dependent on milk for survival, I recommend greater
specificity of language along the lines of "may be particularly dependent on colostrum for
immunity during the neonatal period."
Methods: typos in sentences on "stored at between -20." and "stored between -20."
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150264)
16-Jul-2015
Dear Dr Kennedy:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150264 entitled "Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature
milk in a bear, the giant panda, Ailuropoda melanoleuca" which you submitted to Royal Society
Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of
this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, we would like to see a revision if you are able to address all of the comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 13-Jan-2016. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150395)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150395.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
7
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In their revised manuscript, Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature milk in a
bear, the giant panda, Ailuropoda melanoleuca, the authors have effectively and admirably
expanded the introduction, discussion, and methods in response to reviewer comments. Their
novel results are now more effectively situated within the literature, better contextualize the life
history and ecology of the panda and comperand species, and will be a great value to the
readership. I recommend publication with one minor revision:
"Ursids have endotheliochorial discoidal zonary placentae (16), which implies that giant panda
cubs may be particularly dependent on colostrum for immunity during the neonatal period." This
point needs to be unpacked further and verb choice may be reconsidered (how does a placenta
imply something?)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150395)
16-Sep-2015
Dear Dr Kennedy
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150395 entitled
"Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature milk in a bear, the giant panda,
Ailuropoda melanoleuca" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
8
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150395
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 25-Sep-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
9
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150395)
Thank you for your message of 16th September 2015 notifying us of acceptance of this paper for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
The only change requested came from Reviewer 2, who asked us to modify a sentence in
paragraph four of the introduction, per comment "Ursids have endotheliochorial discoidal zonary
placentae (16), which implies that giant panda cubs may be particularly dependent on colostrum
for immunity during the neonatal period." This point needs to be unpacked further and verb
choice may be reconsidered (how does a placenta imply something?)". We have altered the
sentence to avoid the grammatical error and added additional explanatory text, as requested.
Two sentences now replace the original one.
Apart from the above, we have made the following minor changes.
1) We have amended a sentence in the Materials and Methods in order to add information on the
duration of nursing in giant pandas that we received since submission, and added to the
Acknowledgements accordingly.
2) A list of the contents of the Electronic Supplementary material has been added to the main text
file.
3) The references in both the main text and the ESM now have DOIs where available.
4) We have now provided a media summary.
We trust that the paper is now fully ready for publication.
With many thanks,
Malcolm Kennedy.
Appendix A
Royal Society Open Science
Manuscript ID RSOS-150264
"Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature milk in a bear, the
giant panda, Ailuropoda melanoleuca"
Responses to Reviewers’ comments
We have amended the manuscript according to the reviewer’s comments and
recommendations, or respond to their points as follows (in italics).
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study presented by Griffiths and colleagues uses proteomics and metabolomics
methodologies to investigate compositional changes in milk from the colostrum stage
to mature milk production in giant pandas with respect to the unique life history of
the species. Furthermore, the authors completed a comparative analysis of the milk
protein profiles of several other species and compared them to milk of the giant
panda. I believe studies such as these are important because 1) relative to mature
milk, little is known about the composition of colostrum and 2) they provide the
foundational data for much larger meta-analyses on the evolution of life
history/lactation strategies among mammals. The writing is clear and fairly
straightforward and the background literature is largely appropriate, although I do
provide some additional references that could be incorporated. Overall, I think this is
an interesting study, however the manuscript suffered from a few weaknesses. First,
the introduction would benefit by additional justification for the question. Second,
the methods employed do not actually address the question stated in the introduction.
I provide a suggestion for how this could be remedied in the specific comments
below. Third, the concluding remarks introduce new concepts that are not addressed
in the introduction, hence the conclusion seems to be more of an extension of the
introduction rather than a summary of the main findings and significance of the
study. More specific comments are provided below:
- We have made extensive alterations to the Introduction that should improve it as
suggested. Please see also below.
Introduction:
P. 2, L. 46 This is a weak argument. “life styles”- if by this you are referring to being
marine mammals this is certainly true, but otherwise it is not. These groups have
drastically different reproductive ecologies (i.e. fasting vs. foraging while lactating,
differences in duration of mother/pup separation during maternal foraging,
differences in breeding sites and timing of reproduction, etc.) that would be expected
to contribute to disparate lactation strategies. See Oftedal et al. 1987 (citation below).
- Yes, agreed, fair point. We have changed the paragraph accordingly also to point
out that the pinnipedia are a good example of how diverse reproductive and
lactation strategies are within groups of mammals.
P. 3 L. 13-15 Indicate the placenta type of giant pandas here rather than on L 31-33.
- The Introduction has been reconstructed and mention of the placental type in bears
is raised when bears are introduced.
P. 3 L. 16-18 As worded, this seems rather counter-intuitive to your main question.
That is, if gut closure is achieved less than 1 day after birth, why then would one
expect an extended colostrum phase? I think this could be clarified just by stating
that there can be alternative routes of intestinal absorption other than the paracellular
route.
- Agreed. Amended accordingly, and mention of potential trans-cellular mecanisms
added to the Discussion.
P. 3 L. 21 delete “true”
- Done.
P. 3 L. 36-40 The question proposed here is “do giant pandas have unusually
prolonged transition phase from colostrum to mature milk given the birth of highly
atricial young?” This is a question that could be addressed through a meta-analysis of
the transition times of multiple species that give birth to either altricial or precocial
young, not through the methods employed in this study. Instead, I think the question
addressed through this study is whether components of colostrum, the temporal
changes in those components during the transition to mature milk, and the transition
time between colostrum and mature milk are consistent with what might be expected
for a species with highly altricial young and an anorexic perinatal period.
- Yes, as written we did overstate. We predicted a prolonged transition time but there
remains insufficient definitive information across the Eutheria in terms of colostrum
to mature milk timings for us to be sure how unusual this is. We have amended the
text accordingly, using some of the reviewer’s wording. A meta-analysis would
indeed be an excellent way of asking our question as originally written, but there is
not sufficient coverage of mammal groups yet to do so with confidence. But, it is an
important suggestion and we have mentioned the idea in the amended Introduction.
General comment: The introduction could be improved by 1) adding to the
justification for the above question. For example, incorporate an introduction to the
general differences in composition between colostrum and mature milk (i.e.
colostrum higher in immunological factors, mature milk typically greater fat and
protein) and mention transition times in species for which those data are available.
- The differences between colostrum and mature milk is now mentioned in the
Introduction.
2) it would be great to add a priori hypotheses as to how you might predict
composition to change from colostrum to mature milk and the length of the transition
phase.
- The Introduction has been amended accordingly.
3) It think it would be more appropriate to examine the length of the transition phase
in relative terms rather than the absolute duration. In other words, look at the length
of the transition phase as a proportion of the entire lactation duration.
- We agree entirely, and this has been in our minds from the outset of the study, but
there is still insufficient information across eutherians on the kinetics of the
colostrum to mature milk transition for strong conclusions to be drawn. We have,
however, mentioned this in the Discussion in comparing the duration of lactation of
giant pandas with that of similarly-sized species (e.g. cows, camels) in which the
duration of lactation is similar yet the colostrum to mature milk transition is well-
known and much shorter than that in giant pandas. One of the reasons we did this
work, and chose giant pandas for it, was to help to establish methods and provide an
example with which other researchers could compare transition times and do exactly
as the reviewer suggests.
Methods:
It was quite difficult to keep track of the sample sizes and the lactation stages of milk
samples used for the different assays. For each new methodology, it would help to
explicitly state which species were assayed, the number of animals sampled, and at
what lactation stage (i.e. colostrum, early, peak, late lactation or something of the
sort) the samples were collected. This should be incorporated in all of the figures and
tables (although some of them do have some of this information, their inclusion is
not consistent). Also, were the glands completely evacuated? How many glands were
emptied during milk collection? Were any samples pooled across multiple
days/individuals? Somewhere in the methods, I think it is important to address
clearly how you determined the difference between colostrum and mature milk (for
instance based on the time sequence of change in the constituents assayed)
- We have made amendments throughout the manuscript to accommodate all of these
points, including when during lactation samples were taken from the different
species, how many glands were sampled from each (one), whether pooled or not
(none were pooled except for the bovine milk), and we also now provide our
definition of when the transition ends and mature lactation can be said to establish.
P. 4 L. 1 after animals add (N=6). You can also add here that 2 of the 6 animals had
milk collected over multiple lactations
- Done.
P. 4 L. 15-26 From what lactation stage were milk samples collected from species
other than the giant panda?
- Please see above.
Results:
In this section, please add a statement that based on composition changes (or
whatever factors you use to differentiate between colostrum and mature milk), it
appears as though the transition phase was approximately 20-30 days long and
include the length of the transition phase relative to lactation duration.
- As mentioned above, we have now included our working definition of when the
transition ends, which reads in the Introduction as follows “We here take the
colostrum period to end when all the major components of milk reach an
approximate steady state, although slight modifications in composition may still
occur during the main phase.”. And in Materials and Methods we have detailed the
approximate average durations of lactation for giant pandas and other species.
P. 7 L. 55 delete “between”
- Done.
Discussion:
P. 8 L. 20 delete “if any”. It’s clear from concluding remarks that there are data for at
least a few species. You can include humans too. There are numerous studies on
compositional differences between colostrum and mature milk in humans.
- “if any” deleted as requested. And yes, there are many papers on the changes in
humans which we have not discusses directly, though we have multiple references to
work on human milk and also used the human milk metabolome in analysing our
data.
P. 9 L. 43 give a few examples of the protective functions
- We have now expanded the paragraph on haptoglobin to include examples of its
protective activities and cited accordingly.
P. 9 L. 45-46 unclear, please re-word
- Re-worded to clarify.
P. 9 L. 58 what is meant by a lateral increase?
- We meant ‘later on’, ‘latterly’. The passage has been revised to avoid further
confusion.
P. 9 L. 38-43 Please elaborate on why taurine is noteable
- The whole paragraph has been re-worded to extend discussion of the potential
importance of taurine in bears and in relation to their position within a clade of
carnivores and the occasional carnivory known of giant pandas in the wild.
P. 9 L. 53-56 if this is conjecture, change wording, like by adding “It stands to reason
then that once normal nutritional conditions return…” If this is not conjecture and
phenol sulphate has been identified in milk previously please reference the article.
- Clarified and re-worded similarly to the reviewer’s suggestion. To our knowledge
phenol sulphate has not been found in milk before in connection with maternal
anorexia or starvation, and our observation will hopefully now stimulate a wider
search.
General comment: The discussion could be improved by comparing giant panda
colostrum to other species for which those data are available in addition to the
relative length of the transition phase. This comparative aspect is why it is vital to
look at relative length of the transition phase and not absolute as different species
have different lactation lengths.
- We hope that we have gone some way to satisfying this point in the Discussion and
elsewhere. As we say above, we agree that the ratio between transition times and
total lactation times (whether milk-only or mixed until final weaning) are important
to compare but there is as yet insufficient definitive information on the duration of
transitions in any but a few species, and even they are confined to very restricted
phylogenetic sampling. In a way, this paper is a call to establish robust criteria for
the end of the transition, wider taxonomic sampling, and a meta-analysis just as this
reviewer recommends.
Concluding remarks:
P. 11 L. 3-18 Argument seems tangential to the framework established in the
introduction. Concluding remarks should start with the framework of the
introduction and summarize main points and significance of the results.
- We have now completely replaced the ‘Concluding remarks’ section with a new
section entitled ‘Evolutionary considerations’, mostly in response to the comments
made by Reviewer 2. The points we made in the original P. 11 L. 3-18 are relevant to
the main literature hypothesis for why bears produce such altricial neonates – an
adaptation to birthing during hibernation, which does not apply to half of the species
of bears. These ideas are now discussed in a wider context in the new section.
Granted that we have not provided a new answer, but this does all fit into a more
rounded Discussion.
P. 11 L. 26-28 Move to discussion and elaborate
- Done.
P. 11 L. 30-31 See previous comment about relative length of transition phase
- Done.
P. 11 L. 33-35. It is curious to me why the manuscript ended with a question about
how to define the transition between colostrum and mature milk. This seems to
undermine the study because estimating the length of the transition phase is
dependent on the ability to distinguish between colostrum and mature milk!
- Fair point. We have deleted the question and now include our working definition
for when the transition ends, as detailed above.
References:
Oftedal, O.T., D.J. Boness and R.A. Tedman. 1987. The behavior, physiology, and
anatomy of lactation in the pinnipedia. Current Mammalogy 1: 175-245.
Tao et al. 2011. Evolutionary glycomics: characterization of milk oligosaccharides in
primates. Journal of Proteome Research 10: 1548-1557
Hinde, K. and Z.T. Lewis. 2015. Mothers littlest helpers. Science 348: 1427-1428. -
and references therein
- All of these references now included. Thank you.
Figure 1:
Are these mid-lactation samples?
- Yes, all are mid-lactation; this is now pointed out, and details added in Materials
and Methods.
Table S1:
“Parturition date in bold indicates the beginning of the lactation period from which
samples were collected.”
- Amended as suggested.
Figure S2:
Is labeled as figure S1 in the supplementary material
- Corrected.
Figure S3:
Is labeled as figure S2 in the supplementary material
- Corrected.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In their manuscript "Prolonged transition time between colostrum and mature milk in
a bear, the giant panda, Ailuropoda melanoleuca" the authors provide new insights
into the transition from colostrum to mature panda milk to in part explain the
immunological needs of extremely altricial young ill-prepared for post-natal
challenges due to limitations of ursidae placentation. While these data are very
dynamic and an important contribution to the literature, as currently written the
manuscript does not effectively situate the findings within the established literature
of panda milk, panda ecology and evolution, or explore comperands of extremely
altricial young among mammals- such as marsupials which have been well described
in lactation biology. Key revisions in the following areas will substantially expand
the value of this paper to the readership:
Cite panda milk literature such as Lie et al. 1995, Nakamura et al. 2003, Fei et al
2000, Xuanzhen et al. 2005. I was able to find these in ~60 seconds if a google
scholar search and linking the findings here to other evidence of exceptional features
of panda lactation further substantiate the arguments about strong selection on
supporting a fragile neonate. Moreover, more information about panda natural
history would help the reader to understand the selection pressures on this species.
- These references now included, along with a few others. There are multiple papers
on panda milks (usually in connection with developing artificial milk formulae for
orphan or abandoned cubs) in Chinese journals that are not referenced by ISI and
often difficult to obtain, but hopefully the suggested and other papers will suffice. We
have expanded the text on panda biology that relates to our findings. This is also
partly rolled into the discussion of ideas on why ursids as a whole have such altricial
neonates.
The abstract and introduction did not orient the reader to the feature of the article that
panda milk would be compared to the milks of other species.
- Now included.
I recommend creating a table that lists the species, and relevant features highlighted
in the introduction: placenta type, neonate altriciality (or not), and the number of
samples and timepoints collected. I could not clearly assess the extent to which the
milk samples were collected at comparable post-partum time-points either absolutely
or scaled to life-history.
- Rather than create a new table we have added appropriate detail in various places
in the text and ESM, mainly in the Materials and Methods of the main text.
The discussion read as a laundry list of constituents, their functions, and what was
known about them in other species. A stronger discussion would more effectively
weave in ecology and life-history (as was done well in the introduction), highlighting
in greater detail potential for convergent evolution in milk composition as a function
of the key features- altriciality, placentation, etc. I was disappointed to not see a more
extended discussion of the role of milk composition in the pouch young of
marsupials, and similarities that may be present between them and bears, or even
more discussion within bears of different ecology and diet. Basically the discussion
read as under-developed to me.
- We take the point about a laundry list. We felt that this is unavoidable in order to
place what we found in context and to put across the probable functions of the
components we found. But, in response to this reviewer’s point, replacing the
‘Concluding remarks’ section with the new ‘Evolutionary considerations’ section
allowed us to develop the Discussion more fully and it compares and contrasts the
lactations of bears, other eutherians and marsupials essentially to point out that, as
we say, the transition in giant pandas is a prolongation of the pattern in other
eutherians rather than a convergence to that of marsupials. More relevant
background on marsupials also now appears in the Introduction, so the comparisons
are threaded throughout the paper.
Minor comment: P3L31 all mammals are dependent on milk for survival, I
recommend greater specificity of language along the lines of "may be particularly
dependent on colostrum for immunity during the neonatal period."
- Amended exactly as suggested.
Methods: typos in sentences on "stored at between -20." and "stored between -20."
- Corrected.
Society Open
