Pragmatic analysis of the electric submerged arc furnace
continuum
K. Karalis, N. Karkalos, G. S. E. Antipas and A. Xenidis
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170313.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170313
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 April 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170313.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Baokuan Li)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors developed a transient mathematical model for the description of fluid flow, heat
transfer and electromagnetic phenomena involved in the production of ferronickel in electric arc
furnaces. The reviewer believe this work considers an important subject, and was well presented
and organized. However, some questions should be answered, and some points clarified.
1. The turbulent model should be pointed out, and the contributions of turbulence on the
governing equations should be clarified.
2. what kind of current is used, DC or AC ?
3. the geometry is 2D rather than 3D, why did the authors make such simplification?
4. The good agreement between the two solve is not enough to validate the mathematical model.
The experimental verification should be better.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Quinn Reynolds)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Reviewer: Quinn G. Reynolds
Position and affiliation: Technical Specialist - Pyrometallurgy Division, Mintek, South Africa
Thank you to the authors for preparing an interesting paper which is a useful contribution to the
body of knowledge on the operation of electric ferronickel smelters. It is particularly novel and
interesting to account for the momentum source as a result of emitted CO gas using a coupled
discrete method. I am happy to recommend it for publication subject to the following comments
and suggested changes.
Section 1: "Due to the intrinsically semiconductive nature of the mixed oxides in the calcine..." -
you may wish to avoid the term "semiconductive" here, since although the slag is a relatively
3
poor conductor of electricity, true semiconductor behaviour is not relevant to the modelling being
described.
Section 2.1: I note that you use the DC approximation (the magnetostatic and electrostatic
simplification of Maxwell's equations) due to limitations in the CFD software used. It may be
appropriate to add some comments on how much of an effect you expect this approximation to
have in the AC case. Specifically, do you expect the skin effect from induced magnetic fields to be
insignificant in the slag layer?
Section 2.1: In Equation 15, how did you account for the latent energy of phase change from
liquid to solid? Is it included in the description of Cp as a function of temperature, or as a
separate source term?
Section 2.2: You have used Dirichlet boundary conditions for temperature at all boundaries. Have
you ever performed any tests with more physically realistic boundary conditions, such as
effective heat transfer coefficients and/or thermal radiation where appropriate, for comparison
purposes?
Section 2.2: "...no-slip wall conditions were specified at the interface walls between the slag and
air, electrodes, ferronickel and firebricks" - is it accurate to model the slag-air interface, which is
actually a free surface, with a no-slip condition?
Section 2.4: If possible could you please indicate the specific build information (date and build
number) for the version of Workbench 15 that was used, for repeatability purposes?
Section 2.4: A maximum Courant number of 0.3 is surprisingly low. Could you elaborate a bit
more on the sources of numerical instability in the model that require such heavy under-
relaxation?
Section 3.3: "Other regions with high velocities are the solid-liquid interface where the buoyancy
effect is intense" - At the solid-liquid interface, the velocity damping field used to model the
interface should be having a strong effect. Also, in such close proximity to what should be a solid
wall in a highly viscous medium (slag) I would expect the flow magnitudes to be small despite
the buoyancy driving forces. Overall I am very surprised that such strong velocity gradients exist
so close to the liquid-solid transition region. Is there perhaps some experimental or other
evidence to support this unexpected phenomenon, and have you confirmed that this is not a
numerical artefact in the model?
Section 3.4: "The slag liquid fraction profiles which were computed for a range of constant slag
electrical conductivities..." - Have you considered extending the model to use temperature-
dependent properties? Both thermal and electrical conductivities are strong functions of
temperature for typical slags.
Section 3.4: "Also, the aforementioned phenomenon is favored by the increase of the immersion
depth of the electrodes as well as by the use of rectangular shape electrodes" - An interesting
comment, but are rectangular electrode edges in any way realistic? One would expect the sharp
edges and corners of rectangular electrodes to wear back to smooth curves as the electrode is
consumed in the melt, making it very difficult to maintain sharp edges during normal,
continuous operation of the furnace.
Section 3.6: It is excellent to see authors comparing results between codes. If anything this section
is too short and could be expanded with some more detail and commentary on the comparison.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170313)
24-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Karalis
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170313 entitled
"Pragmatic Analysis of the EAF continuum" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email. Please note that the Editor indicated that the paper
should be seen by a native speaker of English or a language-polishing service before
resubmission. Examples of the latter can be found at
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/language-polishing/.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170313
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
5
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Aug-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
6
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Marta Kwiatkowska
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors developed a transient mathematical model for the description of fluid flow, heat
transfer and electromagnetic phenomena involved in the production of ferronickel in electric arc
furnaces. The reviewer believe this work considers an important subject, and was well presented
and organized. However, some questions should be answered, and some points clarified.
1. The turbulent model should be pointed out, and the contributions of turbulence on the
governing equations should be clarified.
2. what kind of current is used, DC or AC ?
3. the geometry is 2D rather than 3D, why did the authors make such simplification?
4. The good agreement between the two solve is not enough to validate the mathematical model.
The experimental verification should be better.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Reviewer: Quinn G. Reynolds
Position and affiliation: Technical Specialist - Pyrometallurgy Division, Mintek, South Africa
Thank you to the authors for preparing an interesting paper which is a useful contribution to the
body of knowledge on the operation of electric ferronickel smelters. It is particularly novel and
interesting to account for the momentum source as a result of emitted CO gas using a coupled
discrete method. I am happy to recommend it for publication subject to the following comments
and suggested changes.
Section 1: "Due to the intrinsically semiconductive nature of the mixed oxides in the calcine..." -
you may wish to avoid the term "semiconductive" here, since although the slag is a relatively
poor conductor of electricity, true semiconductor behaviour is not relevant to the modelling being
described.
Section 2.1: I note that you use the DC approximation (the magnetostatic and electrostatic
simplification of Maxwell's equations) due to limitations in the CFD software used. It may be
appropriate to add some comments on how much of an effect you expect this approximation to
7
have in the AC case. Specifically, do you expect the skin effect from induced magnetic fields to be
insignificant in the slag layer?
Section 2.1: In Equation 15, how did you account for the latent energy of phase change from
liquid to solid? Is it included in the description of Cp as a function of temperature, or as a
separate source term?
Section 2.2: You have used Dirichlet boundary conditions for temperature at all boundaries. Have
you ever performed any tests with more physically realistic boundary conditions, such as
effective heat transfer coefficients and/or thermal radiation where appropriate, for comparison
purposes?
Section 2.2: "...no-slip wall conditions were specified at the interface walls between the slag and
air, electrodes, ferronickel and firebricks" - is it accurate to model the slag-air interface, which is
actually a free surface, with a no-slip condition?
Section 2.4: If possible could you please indicate the specific build information (date and build
number) for the version of Workbench 15 that was used, for repeatability purposes?
Section 2.4: A maximum Courant number of 0.3 is surprisingly low. Could you elaborate a bit
more on the sources of numerical instability in the model that require such heavy under-
relaxation?
Section 3.3: "Other regions with high velocities are the solid-liquid interface where the buoyancy
effect is intense" - At the solid-liquid interface, the velocity damping field used to model the
interface should be having a strong effect. Also, in such close proximity to what should be a solid
wall in a highly viscous medium (slag) I would expect the flow magnitudes to be small despite
the buoyancy driving forces. Overall I am very surprised that such strong velocity gradients exist
so close to the liquid-solid transition region. Is there perhaps some experimental or other
evidence to support this unexpected phenomenon, and have you confirmed that this is not a
numerical artefact in the model?
Section 3.4: "The slag liquid fraction profiles which were computed for a range of constant slag
electrical conductivities..." - Have you considered extending the model to use temperature-
dependent properties? Both thermal and electrical conductivities are strong functions of
temperature for typical slags.
Section 3.4: "Also, the aforementioned phenomenon is favored by the increase of the immersion
depth of the electrodes as well as by the use of rectangular shape electrodes" - An interesting
comment, but are rectangular electrode edges in any way realistic? One would expect the sharp
edges and corners of rectangular electrodes to wear back to smooth curves as the electrode is
consumed in the melt, making it very difficult to maintain sharp edges during normal,
continuous operation of the furnace.
Section 3.6: It is excellent to see authors comparing results between codes. If anything this section
is too short and could be expanded with some more detail and commentary on the comparison.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170313)
See Appendix A.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170313.R1)
02-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Karalis,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Pragmatic Analysis of the EAF
continuum" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
de from technical aspects on which we comment below, the text has been revised for
guage as suggested by the Editor.
mments by Reviewer #1
The turbulent model should be pointed out, and the contributions of turbulence
on the governing equations should be clarified.
Both from the preliminary runs as well as from the production runs, the cell Reynolds
number varies between 0.09 to 75.7 (see Table 6 of the manuscript). Consequently,
we assumed that the flow inside the bath was fully laminar and, hence, we did not
employ a turbulence model.
What kind of current is used, DC or AC?
n the current study we utilized DC. Both our own precursors studies and the literature
ndicate that use of AC field with a frequency of 50 Hz would result to a pseudo steady-
state model. However, use of AC comes hand-in-hand with an unjustifiably high
computational cost. Additionally, the use of an AC does not seem to affect the influence
of slag transport properties in the melting profile and temperature distribution.
Therefore, the use of the AC in the current study would be purely unjustified.
he geometry is 2D rather than 3D, why did the authors make such simplification?
We have carried out preliminary 3D calculations using AC. Our findings indicated that
even the distribution of various quantities differ only slightly between the 2D and 3D
geometries; the correlation between these quantities and the simulation outcome is
generally similar. Consequently, the effect of these parameters remains the same in
both 2D and 3D geometries. By comparing the current density distribution between 2D
and 3D geometries, only a slight difference in the maximum current density passing
hrough the negative electrode was observed, due to the contribution of the 3rd
electrode. However, this effect does not appear to impact the conclusions in
elationship with the slag’s thermal and electrical conductivity in the melt (liquid phase)
distribution.
The good agreement between the two solve is not enough to validate the
mathematical model. The experimental verification should be better.
This mathematical model refers to an industrial Electric submerged Arc Furnace. Due
to the fact that the temperatures during the operation of the furnace are approximately
1500-1700K it is very difficult to perform any sort of conclusive measurements.
However, measurements of the slag temperature contacted by LARCO S.A. via an
infrared pyrometer, indicated that temperature varies between 1523-1633 <U+039A> at the
outlet of the EAF. Also, near the electrodes the temperature varies between 2273-
3073 K. A comparison of these values with the predicted temperature distribution (see
Fig. 3(a)), shows that our computations are in accordance with experimental
observations on the industrial scale.
mments by Reviewer #2
Section 1: "Due to the intrinsically semiconductive nature of the mixed oxides
in the calcine..." - you may wish to avoid the term "semiconductive" here, since
although the slag is a relatively poor conductor of electricity, true
semiconductor behaviour is not relevant to the modelling being described.
We use this term as the conductivity of the slag increases with temperature. However,
in accordance with the reviewer’s suggestion, we have removed this term from the
revised text.
Section 2.1: I note that you use the DC approximation (the magnetostatic and
electrostatic simplification of Maxwell's equations) due to limitations in the CFD
software used. It may be appropriate to add some comments on how much of
an effect you expect this approximation to have in the AC case. Specifically, do
you expect the skin effect from induced magnetic fields to be insignificant in
the slag layer?
The skin depth in the slag layer is larger than the dimensions of the electric arc furnace
consequently this does not affect the results. The effect of the AC in comparison to
the DC does not alter slag transport properties in the melting profile, temperature
distribution etc. We consider that use of AC will only affect the time required for melting
of the bath in the simulation.
Section 2.1: In Equation 15, how did you account for the latent energy of phase
change from liquid to solid? Is it included in the description of Cp as a function
of temperature, or as a separate source term?
It is included in the equation of the enthalpy,
H = h + <U+0394>H
<U+0001D43B> = h + <U+0001D6E5><U+0001D43B>
<U+0001D447>
h = <U+222B> <U+0001D450><U+0001D45D> <U+0001D451><U+0001D447>
<U+0001D447><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452><U+0001D453>
Where:
H is the enthalpy
<U+0394><U+0397> is the latent heat (J/kg)
Cp is the heat capacity (J/(kgK))
T is the temperature (K)
Section 2.2: You have used Dirichlet boundary conditions for temperature at all
boundaries. Have you ever performed any tests with more physically realistic
boundary conditions, such as effective heat transfer coefficients and/or thermal
radiation where appropriate, for comparison purposes?
Yes, according to the preliminary simulations using Robin boundary conditions in the
side walls (convective heat flux) the results were the same. We should mention that,
Dirichlet boundary conditions were derived from these preliminary simulations. We
applied these boundary conditions in order to use as much as possible smaller number
of elements and in order to simplify as much as possible the developed model.
Section 2.2: "...no-slip wall conditions were specified at the interface walls
between the slag and air, electrodes, ferronickel and firebricks" - is it accurate
to model the slag-air interface, which is actually a free surface, with a no-slip
condition?
No slip boundary condition has been used for slag/air and slag/ferronickel interfaces.
Our interest is focused on the main stirring phenomenon inside the slag layer. We
have not incorporated models of the interfaces of slag/ferronickel and slag/air,
primarily as - to the best of our knowledge - there are no available data in the literature
regarding the surface tension and other relevant quantities for the slag/air and
slag/ferronickel interfaces. Using slip boundary conditions, the mean velocity obtained
in the slag region is again very small as in the case of no slip boundary conditions.
Even though the actual velocities created in the slag bath changed, the same trends
in the influence of the slag transport properties in the melting profile were observed.
The no-slip conditions were also used in the following works where we got the initial
motivation from [1-6].
Section 2.4: If possible could you please indicate the specific build information
(date and build number) for the version of Workbench 15 that was used, for
repeatability purposes?
We have used the Workbench 15.0, however, the case file should work with later
versions of Workbench.
Section 2.4: A maximum Courant number of 0.3 is surprisingly low. Could you
elaborate a bit more on the sources of numerical instability in the model that
require such heavy under-relaxation?
Due to the very small size of the grid, in the slag solid-liquid interface the velocities
were high enough to create Courant number higher than 1.0. Consequently, we had
to restart the simulations from previous checkpoints. In order to avoid this
phenomenon, we found that using a very low Courant number prevent us from such
instabilities.
Section 3.3: "Other regions with high velocities are the solid-liquid interface
where the buoyancy effect is intense" - At the solid-liquid interface, the velocity
damping field used to model the interface should be having a strong effect.
Also, in such close proximity to what should be a solid wall in a highly viscous
medium (slag) I would expect the flow magnitudes to be small despite the
buoyancy driving forces. Overall I am very surprised that such strong velocity
gradients exist so close to the liquid-solid transition region. Is there perhaps
some experimental or other evidence to support this unexpected phenomenon,
and have you confirmed that this is not a numerical artefact in the model?
This is a matter of great interest. Primarily, there are no experimental data for such
verification; in fact, experimental validation of velocity gradients at the interface are
probably very difficult to achieve. We have performed extensive error checking of our
current formulation and I can most categorically confirm that there are no numerical
artefacts. To the best of our knowledge, these gradients are systemic outcomes of our
approach. We note that the high velocities values are in fact about 30 cells away from
the solid-liquid interface.
Section 3.4: "The slag liquid fraction profiles which were computed for a range
of constant slag electrical conductivities..." - Have you considered extending
the model to use temperature-dependent properties? Both thermal and
electrical conductivities are strong functions of temperature for typical slags.
The reviewer is correct in regarding the strong correlation of the slag thermal and
electrical conductivity with the temperature. We believe, that due to the fact that the
density, viscosity, electrical and thermal conductivity are correlated a lot of numerical
instabilities will occur. For example, when the temperature increases in a cell, then the
density and the viscosity values will decrease while the electrical and thermal
conductivity will increase making the convergence very difficult.
Section 3.4: "Also, the aforementioned phenomenon is favored by the increase
of the immersion depth of the electrodes as well as by the use of rectangular
shape electrodes" - An interesting comment, but are rectangular electrode
edges in any way realistic? One would expect the sharp edges and corners of
rectangular electrodes to wear back to smooth curves as the electrode is
consumed in the melt, making it very difficult to maintain sharp edges during
normal, continuous operation of the furnace.
The reviewer, is correct. During the operation of the electric arc furnace it is very
difficult to have so sharp edged electrodes. However, we wanted to examine some
extreme scenarios occurring during the melting process, rather than merely, say, to
consider the influence of the electrode tip curvature.
Section 3.6: It is excellent to see authors comparing results between codes. If
anything this section is too short and could be expanded with some more detail
and commentary on the comparison.
As the reviewer wrote, in section 3.6 we compared the electromagnetic results
between these codes. In Fig.8, the Joule heat in respect to two horizontal lines is
portrayed. It should be mentioned that we only compared the electromagnetic model
between these two codes and that is mainly because the documentation in ANSYS
Fluent was incomplete and without validation examples. In the Joule heat distribution,
the current density as well as the slag electrical conductivity value is incorporated.
Consequently, the only variable which we could discuss is the voltage which has no
interest regarding the comparison between the codes.
ferences
1. Dilawari, A. and J. Szekely, A mathematical model of slag and metal flow in the
ESR process. Metallurgical Transactions B, 1977. 8(1): p. 227-236.
2. Choudhary, M. and J. Szekely, The effect of temperature dependent electrical
conductivity on flow and temperature fields in slags in ESR systems. Metallurgical and
materials transactions B, 1981. 12(2): p. 418-421.
3. Sheng, Y., G. Irons, and D. Tisdale, Transport phenomena in electric smelting of
nickel matte: Part II. Mathematical modeling. Metallurgical and materials transactions
B, 1998. 29(1): p. 85-94.
4. Weber, V., et al., A comprehensive model of the electroslag remelting process:
description and validation. Metallurgical and materials transactions B, 2009. 40(3): p.
271-280.
5. Xia, J. and T. Ahokainen, Numerical modelling of slag flows in an electric furnace.
Scandinavian journal of metallurgy, 2004. 33(4): p. 220-228.
6. Snyders, C.A., Modelling the thermal, electrical and flow profiles in a 6-in-line matte
melting furnace. 2008, Stellenbosch: Stellenbosch University.
Society Open
