The origins of babytalk: smiling, teaching or social
convergence?
Marina Kalashnikova, Christopher Carignan and Denis Burnham
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170306.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170306
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 February 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 31 March 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 28 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 28 June 2017
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170089)
3rd March 2017
Dear Dr Kalashnikova:
Manuscript ID RSOS-170089 entitled "The origins of babytalk: Smiling, teaching, or social
convergence?" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed by myself
and one of the associate editors of the journal and we are in agreement that the manuscript
cannot be published in its current form.
We think this manuscript has the potential to make an interesting contribution, but we were not
convinced that enough data had been collected to reassure us that the reported effects are robust.
Recordings are made from just 8 mothers-- We would like to see a power analysis that
demonstrates that this is an appropriate number of participants to collect data from. It's not
obvious why so few participants are used. Secondly, there is no information about how much
data is actually collected from each participant, e.g., there is no description of how many times
mothers produced the desired phonemes during IDS. The methods suggest that mothers were
instructed to use specific words "frequently", but we have no indication of whether the frequency
of word use is matched across the three conditions. We think if more data were collected, and the
details of what actually entered the analysis were fleshed out, the paper tells an interesting story,
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
but we are currently unconvinced by the experimental design. However, a new manuscript may
be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 1st July 2017. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Essi Viding, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170089)
See Appendix A.
label_version_1
RSOS-170306.R0 (Revision)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Melanie Soderstrom)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Thank you for the opportunity to review “The origins of babytalk: Smiling, teaching, or social
convergence?”
The study seeks to answer a fundamental question about the nature of infant-directed speech that
has been of central interest to the language development community since at least the 1970s –
namely, is infant-directed speech a manifestation of caregivers’ desire to “teach” (or
communicate) language, or a secondary consequence of other factors. Using careful articulatory
measures, the authors find that the acoustically altered vowels are driven by changes in the
larynx, not in the tongue or lips, suggesting that the changes in vowels may be driven not by an
attempt to produce clearer speech, or production of speech while smiling, but rather the speaker’s
(unconscious) attempt to appear less threatening.
Please note that I am not an expert in the particular articulatory analysis used in the study, which
limits my ability to comment on some details of the methodology.
Overall, the study appears carefully conceived and conducted. I support the authors’ argument
that the sample size is appropriate to their methodology. The theoretical question is one of
importance and interest to a broad spectrum of the research community. Below I suggest some
areas where the manuscript could benefit from greater acknowledgment of the limitations
(particularly around generalizability) of the findings, and some key missing items from the
literature (listed below), as well as a couple other minor concerns.
Regarding generalizability: While agreeing with the authors that the small N is suitable for the
nature of the study, this nonetheless leads to a limitation in the potential generalizability of the
finding. Generalizability is further limited by the highly constrained laboratory circumstances
under which the IDS samples were taken. These methodological limitations should be more
carefully acknowledged. Beyond methodological limitations, there is a tendency in the
manuscript to make very broad claims that go beyond what the data specifically show with
respect to IDS in general. As I’m sure the authors would agree, although we talk about one
construct that we call “IDS”, there are really a broad range of different ways that we speak to
infants and young children that vary by age, circumstance and individual differences. The
current study necessary addresses one very specific kind of laboratory IDS, produced by
Australian mothers of 11-month-old infants, and this could be more explicitly acknowledged.
Specific comments on the manuscript:
From page 8: I am curious how the authors reconcile their current findings with their own and
others’ past findings that IDS is modulated by infant characteristics related to hearing status, etc.?
These seem inconsistent to me - wouldn’t mothers want to appear non-threatening regardless of
infant hearing status? I suppose one could argue that mothers don’t (unconsciously) adjust how
threatening they sound to an infant with profound hearing impairment because the infant doesn’t
hear it anyway, but this argument is a bit harder to make for e.g. the study involving infants at-
risk for dyslexia, or even infants with only partial impairment.
Page 11: The sentences at the very beginning of section 2.2 are repetitive with material on the
previous page.
4
Page 11: I had a couple of minor concerns about the ES standard. The method for producing the
exaggerated speech standard is supposed to be “truly hyperarticulated speech”, yet the means of
obtaining it relies on inducing an affective response (e.g. “…as if you were really happy”).
Additionally, the standard is produced with standalone vowels while the measures of IDS and
ADS are taken within a syllable context, so not directly comparable. I can’t think of a specific way
in which this could have produced the pattern of results that were obtained, though, as the ADS
and IDS would be equally different from the ES standard, but it is nonetheless worth
mentioning/addressing why the ES standard was done in this way.
Page 20: “Thus, the well-established phenomenon of hyper-acoustic vowel in IDS compared with
ADS vowels is solely due to shortening of the vocal tract by raising the larynx….” [emphasis
original] This statement seems too strong given the limitations outlined above. This claim can be
made about this particular set of stimuli, but generalizability has not been established.
Below are the two studies I mentioned that should be referenced. The first looks at the extent to
which the hyperarticulation hypothesis holds over naturalistic speech (and finds that it does not).
The second suggests that the effects of hyperarticulation may be by-products of other
characteristics of IDS, particularly slowed speech.
Real-world data: Martin, A., Schatz, T., Versteegh, M., Miyazawa, K., Mazuka, R., Dupoux, E., &
Cristia, A. (2015). Mothers speak less clearly to infants than to adults: A comprehensive test of the
hyperarticulation hypothesis. Psychological science, 26(3), 341-347.
Speech rate: McMurray, B., Kovack-Lesh, K. A., Goodwin, D., & McEchron, W. (2013). Infant
directed speech and the development of speech perception: Enhancing development or an
unintended consequence?. Cognition, 129(2), 362-378.
These concerns (which would be easily addressed by the authors) not-withstanding, I commend
the authors on a valuable addition to the literature and I look forward to seeing the final
published version.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Weiyi Ma)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
5
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This study examined mothers’ speech directed to infants and adults in terms of the acoustic
vowel space, tongue and lip movements, and the length of their vocal tract. This study is so
expertly designed and conducted. The manuscript presented some very interesting, strong, yet
provocative claims on the function of IDS, which I personally enjoyed reading. This can become
an important study that inspires more discussion on the evolutionary significance of IDS.
This paper told a big story based on very little data. However, I believe that it will be a great fit
for a multidisciplinary journal like Royal Society Open Science. The claim that the function of IDS
is more socio-emotional than linguistic is especially interesting. However, the authors may
consider further lowering the tone in the discussion because of 1) the small sample size of parents
tested; 2) the narrow age range of infants involved in this study; and 3) the limitation of
experimental conditions.
In addition, the authors may further clarify why a shortened vocal tract serves more socio-
emotional than linguistic function in human (and nonhuman) communication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170306)
14-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Kalashnikova
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170306 entitled
"The origins of babytalk: Smiling, teaching, or social convergence?" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170306
6
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Jun-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
7
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Essi Viding
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
Dear Authors,
Thank you for submitting your manuscript for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Two reviewers have now read and evaluated your manuscript: both agree that the work is
interesting and nicely presented. Both have also suggested that some claims in the discussion
should be tempered (see the reviewer’s comments for details). If you are willing to address the
minor points that the reviewers have raised, we would be happy to accept your manuscript for
publication.
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you for the opportunity to review “The origins of babytalk: Smiling, teaching, or social
convergence?”
The study seeks to answer a fundamental question about the nature of infant-directed speech that
has been of central interest to the language development community since at least the 1970s –
namely, is infant-directed speech a manifestation of caregivers’ desire to “teach” (or
communicate) language, or a secondary consequence of other factors. Using careful articulatory
measures, the authors find that the acoustically altered vowels are driven by changes in the
larynx, not in the tongue or lips, suggesting that the changes in vowels may be driven not by an
8
attempt to produce clearer speech, or production of speech while smiling, but rather the speaker’s
(unconscious) attempt to appear less threatening.
Please note that I am not an expert in the particular articulatory analysis used in the study, which
limits my ability to comment on some details of the methodology.
Overall, the study appears carefully conceived and conducted. I support the authors’ argument
that the sample size is appropriate to their methodology. The theoretical question is one of
importance and interest to a broad spectrum of the research community. Below I suggest some
areas where the manuscript could benefit from greater acknowledgment of the limitations
(particularly around generalizability) of the findings, and some key missing items from the
literature (listed below), as well as a couple other minor concerns.
Regarding generalizability: While agreeing with the authors that the small N is suitable for the
nature of the study, this nonetheless leads to a limitation in the potential generalizability of the
finding. Generalizability is further limited by the highly constrained laboratory circumstances
under which the IDS samples were taken. These methodological limitations should be more
carefully acknowledged. Beyond methodological limitations, there is a tendency in the
manuscript to make very broad claims that go beyond what the data specifically show with
respect to IDS in general. As I’m sure the authors would agree, although we talk about one
construct that we call “IDS”, there are really a broad range of different ways that we speak to
infants and young children that vary by age, circumstance and individual differences. The
current study necessary addresses one very specific kind of laboratory IDS, produced by
Australian mothers of 11-month-old infants, and this could be more explicitly acknowledged.
Specific comments on the manuscript:
From page 8: I am curious how the authors reconcile their current findings with their own and
others’ past findings that IDS is modulated by infant characteristics related to hearing status, etc.?
These seem inconsistent to me - wouldn’t mothers want to appear non-threatening regardless of
infant hearing status? I suppose one could argue that mothers don’t (unconsciously) adjust how
threatening they sound to an infant with profound hearing impairment because the infant doesn’t
hear it anyway, but this argument is a bit harder to make for e.g. the study involving infants at-
risk for dyslexia, or even infants with only partial impairment.
Page 11: The sentences at the very beginning of section 2.2 are repetitive with material on the
previous page.
Page 11: I had a couple of minor concerns about the ES standard. The method for producing the
exaggerated speech standard is supposed to be “truly hyperarticulated speech”, yet the means of
obtaining it relies on inducing an affective response (e.g. “…as if you were really happy”).
Additionally, the standard is produced with standalone vowels while the measures of IDS and
ADS are taken within a syllable context, so not directly comparable. I can’t think of a specific way
in which this could have produced the pattern of results that were obtained, though, as the ADS
and IDS would be equally different from the ES standard, but it is nonetheless worth
mentioning/addressing why the ES standard was done in this way.
Page 20: “Thus, the well-established phenomenon of hyper-acoustic vowel in IDS compared with
ADS vowels is solely due to shortening of the vocal tract by raising the larynx….” [emphasis
original] This statement seems too strong given the limitations outlined above. This claim can be
made about this particular set of stimuli, but generalizability has not been established.
Below are the two studies I mentioned that should be referenced. The first looks at the extent to
which the hyperarticulation hypothesis holds over naturalistic speech (and finds that it does not).
The second suggests that the effects of hyperarticulation may be by-products of other
characteristics of IDS, particularly slowed speech.
9
Real-world data: Martin, A., Schatz, T., Versteegh, M., Miyazawa, K., Mazuka, R., Dupoux, E., &
Cristia, A. (2015). Mothers speak less clearly to infants than to adults: A comprehensive test of the
hyperarticulation hypothesis. Psychological science, 26(3), 341-347.
Speech rate: McMurray, B., Kovack-Lesh, K. A., Goodwin, D., & McEchron, W. (2013). Infant
directed speech and the development of speech perception: Enhancing development or an
unintended consequence?. Cognition, 129(2), 362-378.
These concerns (which would be easily addressed by the authors) not-withstanding, I commend
the authors on a valuable addition to the literature and I look forward to seeing the final
published version.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study examined mothers’ speech directed to infants and adults in terms of the acoustic
vowel space, tongue and lip movements, and the length of their vocal tract. This study is so
expertly designed and conducted. The manuscript presented some very interesting, strong, yet
provocative claims on the function of IDS, which I personally enjoyed reading. This can become
an important study that inspires more discussion on the evolutionary significance of IDS.
This paper told a big story based on very little data. However, I believe that it will be a great fit
for a multidisciplinary journal like Royal Society Open Science. The claim that the function of IDS
is more socio-emotional than linguistic is especially interesting. However, the authors may
consider further lowering the tone in the discussion because of 1) the small sample size of parents
tested; 2) the narrow age range of infants involved in this study; and 3) the limitation of
experimental conditions.
In addition, the authors may further clarify why a shortened vocal tract serves more socio-
emotional than linguistic function in human (and nonhuman) communication.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170306)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170306.R1)
28-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Kalashnikova,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The origins of babytalk: Smiling,
teaching, or social convergence?" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
10
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
The MARCS Institute for Brain, Behaviour and Development
Western Sydney University
Locked Bag 1797, Penrith 2751
NSW, Australia
Professor Essi Viding
Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Editor
Royal Society Open Science
31 March 2017
Dear Professor Viding,
My co-authors and I would like to thank you for your comments on our
manuscript ‘The origins of babytalk: Smiling, teaching, or social convergence?’. We
have now taken into consideration and addressed your suggestions and would like to
re-submit the manuscript for consideration for publication in Royal Society Open
Science journal.
As you will remember, our study assesses the now well-established hypothesis
that parents’ use of infant directed speech (IDS) is directed at teaching infants about
language by measuring both acoustic and articulatory adjustments that take place in
mothers’ vocal tract when they speak to their young babies. Using the non-invasive
imaging technique of electromagnetic articulography (EMA), which allows real-time
recording of mothers’ articulatory movements while interacting with their infants, we
succeeded in pinpointing the articulatory substrate of the acoustic properties that
distinguish IDS from adult directed speech (ADS). By comparison of acoustic data
and measurements at different articulatory loci, we demonstrate that the sound
qualities of IDS are not directed at teaching language; instead they are a side effect of
mothers’ tendency to raise the larynx, a similar adjustment that other species use to
appear non-threatening to their offspring.
Your previous review of the manuscript provided feedback on the need for a
power analysis, the number of participants, and the number of tokens. These are each
addressed below.
Following your suggestions, we conducted a power analysis to assess the
suitability of the sample size in the study. A power analysis for the significant finding
reported in our paper (i.e., the results of the linear mixed model analysis for vocal
tract length) yielded a very high power of 0.998, which confirms the robustness of our
findings. We acknowledge that the current sample size appears small in comparison to
the sample sizes commonly included in experimental studies assessing the acoustic
qualities of IDS and other speech registers. However, the inclusion of eight
participants is actually a relatively large number for research of this type. Articulatory
data are extraordinarily time-consuming to collect, process, and analyse. Because of
these limitations, the number of speakers included in a typical study involving speech
articulation is low when compared with other fields, e.g., psychology.
In order to demonstrate how our study fits with current research of its type, we
surveyed studies over the past three years involving articulatory imaging in two
prominent journals, the Journal of Phonetics and Phonetica.
In the Journal of Phonetics, which is arguably the most well-known and
influential journal for research on phonetics and speech production, the range of
speaker numbers is relatively large, but even the largest study still does not even
begin to approach the numbers from other fields of research; the smallest study, on
the other hand, included only two speakers. The mean number of speakers is 10.25.
Additionally, it is important to note that studies that included more than 10 speakers
were from very large research groups and/or represented the culmination of several
years’ worth of research (as is the case for the second author’s own published PhD
dissertation study, which included 12 speakers’ data collected over a period of 2-3
years). These Journal of Phonetics studies over the past three years are as follows:
19 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447016300791
14 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447016300018
12 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447017300153
12 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447014000527
10 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S009544701400062X
8 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447015001072
5 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447015000030
2 speakers - http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0095447013000922
In Phonetica, another top-tier journal in phonetics and speech production
research, there were no studies over the past three years using electromagnetic
articulography data, in itself indicative of the importance of our current study, but
there were a number of studies that used other articulatory imaging methods. The
range of speaker numbers is similar to that for the Journal of Phonetics, with as few
as 1-2 speakers, but all less than 20. The mean number of speakers is 6.67. These
Phonetica studies are as follows:
18 speakers (ultrasound) - http://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/369630
9 speakers (electropalatography) - http://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/442590
5 speakers (ultrasound) - http://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/452475
5 speakers (Vicon motion capture) - http://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/443836
2 speakers (structural magnetic resonance imaging) -
http://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/371820
1 speaker (ultrasound) - http://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/362672
With respect to the number of tokens, Table 1 presents the number of tokens
included in the analyses for each participant, which we have now also included in the
Supplementary Materials for the manuscript following your suggestion
(Supplementary Materials, Table S1). As can be seen, our analyses comprised 545
vowel tokens. While different numbers of tokens were recorded for each condition
and each participant, linear mixed models analyses are robust to such differences. It
also must be noted that it is not possible to elicit an equal number of tokens for each
speaker in the IDS and ADS conditions since the tokens are extracted from natural
speech samples, which duration depends on each speaker’s personality and
engagement in the interaction and, in the case of IDS, each infant’s mood during the
experimental session.
Table 1. Number of vowel tokens elicited from each participant in the infant-directed
speech (IDS), adult-directed speech (ADS), and exaggerated speech (ES) conditions.
Participant IDS ADS ES
Speaker 1 46 24 12
Speaker 2 47 17 14
Speaker 3 38 13 15
Speaker 4 37 36 14
Speaker 5 23 13 15
Speaker 6 34 10 15
Speaker 7 27 18 15
Speaker 8 32 15 15
Total: 545 284 146 115
Our study challenges the methodological and theoretical approaches to
research on IDS. Even though it is the case that this and other studies based on
articulatory data include small sample sizes, we demonstrate here that our results are
based on a large number of vowel tokens, and the study has very high statistical
power. Our use of electromagnetic articulography has resulted in the first to measure
directly the fine-grained articulatory adjustments that take place in the mother’s vocal
tract when they speak to their young babies and to shed light on the ontogeny of early
mother-infant interactions.
The data presented here have not been previously published and have not been
submitted to another journal. We confirm that this study has been approved by
Western Sydney University Human Research Ethics Committee (approval number:
H9482), and all participants provided informed consent prior to their participation in
our study. The datasets supporting this article have been uploaded as part of the
Supplementary Material.
Thank you very much for your consideration of this manuscript.
Yours sincerely,
Marina Kalashnikova, Christopher Carignan, and Denis Burnham
Appendix B
The MARCS Institute for Brain, Behaviour and Development
Western Sydney University
Locked Bag 1797, Penrith 2751
NSW, Australia
Professor Essi Viding
Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Editor
Royal Society Open Science
26 June 2017
Dear Professor Viding,
My co-authors and I would like to thank you and the reviewers for your
comments on our manuscript ‘The origins of babytalk: Smiling, teaching, or social
convergence?’. We have now taken into consideration your feedback and made the
suggested changes to the manuscript. You will find the changes highlighted in the
manuscript, and we address each suggestion in detail below.
Response to Reviewer 1
1. From page 8: I am curious how the authors reconcile their current findings
with their own and others’ past findings that IDS is modulated by infant
characteristics related to hearing status, etc.? These seem inconsistent to me -
wouldn’t mothers want to appear non-threatening regardless of infant hearing
status? I suppose one could argue that mothers don’t (unconsciously) adjust
how threatening they sound to an infant with profound hearing impairment
because the infant doesn’t hear it anyway, but this argument is a bit harder to
make for e.g. the study involving infants at-risk for dyslexia, or even infants
with only partial impairment.
We agree with Reviewer 1 that the previous findings that mothers do not
hyperarticulate vowels in IDS to infants with a hearing impairment or risk for a
cognitive disorder challenge the interpretation of the present study. We have now
stated this issue in the manuscript (p. 19) and have proposed that this is an issue of
relevance for future research as it allows for the possibility that mothers may employ
different articulatory adjustments to emphasise other linguistic or emotional qualities
in their speech that may be more suitable for their infants’ cognitive, linguistic, and
emotional needs.
2. Page 11: The sentences at the very beginning of section 2.2 are repetitive with
material on the previous page.
We have now removed the first sentence of this section to avoid repetition.
3. Page 11: I had a couple of minor concerns about the ES standard. The method
for producing the exaggerated speech standard is supposed to be “truly
hyperarticulated speech”, yet the means of obtaining it relies on inducing an
affective response (e.g. “…as if you were really happy”). Additionally, the
standard is produced with standalone vowels while the measures of IDS and
ADS are taken within a syllable context, so not directly comparable. I can’t
think of a specific way in which this could have produced the pattern of results
that were obtained, though, as the ADS and IDS would be equally different
from the ES standard, but it is nonetheless worth mentioning/addressing why
the ES standard was done in this way.
We have now further clarified the reason for providing mothers with these
specific instructions in the Method section of the manuscript (p. 7). The emotional
terms used in our instructions have been previously attributed to the emotional and
facial expressions that mothers employ when interacting with their young infants
(Chong, Werker, Russell, & Carroll, 2003. Infant and Child Dev.) allowing for the
elicitation of both the exaggerated articulatory adjustments in the vocal tract and
facial expressions in this condition.
4. Page 20: “Thus, the well-established phenomenon of hyper-acoustic vowel in
IDS compared with ADS vowels is solely due to shortening of the vocal tract
by raising the larynx….” [emphasis original] This statement seems too strong
given the limitations outlined above. This claim can be made about this
particular set of stimuli, but generalizability has not been established.
In order to address this comment and the further concerns about the
generalisability of our findings expressed by Reviewer 2, we have now included an
additional paragraph in the Discussion section (p. 19) addressing the limitations of our
study and explicitly outlining the methodological issues that may have implications
for the generalisability of our results. Specifically, we have clarified that at this
moment, our findings are specific to the interactions between mothers speaking
Australian English and their 11-month-old infants who are growing up in a
monolingual environment and are not at-risk for any sensory or cognitive disorders.
Therefore, it is of interest for future research to extend the present findings to
interactions in languages other than English, different infant populations (in age and
cognitive and linguistic needs), and a variety of communicative and linguistic
contexts. We also thank Reviewer 1 for suggesting additional references for our
discussion, which we have now included in the manuscript.
Response to Reviewer 2
1. However, the authors may consider further lowering the tone in the discussion
because of 1) the small sample size of parents tested; 2) the narrow age range
of infants involved in this study; and 3) the limitation of experimental
conditions.
We have now incorporated the suggested change to our discussion (p. 19). See
response to Reviewer 1, Point 4 above.
2. In addition, the authors may further clarify why a shortened vocal tract serves
more socio-emotional than linguistic function in human (and nonhuman)
communication.
This clarification has now been added to the Introduction of our manuscript (p.
5). We have clarified that laryngeal raising is proposed to be an adjustment aimed at
achieving social-emotional purposes rather than the linguistic or didactic purpose
attributed to vowel hyperarticulation given that changes to the length of the vocal tract
due to the position of the larynx do not influence the shape of the vocal tract (i.e.,
articulatory posture of the tongue and the lips) and this articulatory adjustment is not
unique to human vocalisations.
Thank you very much for your consideration of this manuscript.
Yours sincerely,
Marina Kalashnikova, Christopher Carignan, and Denis Burnham
Society Open
