Digested sludge-derived three-dimensional hierarchical
porous carbon for high-performance supercapacitor
electrode
Jia-Jia Zhang, Hao-Xiang Fan, Xiao-Hu Dai and Shi-Jie Yuan
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172456.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172456
Review timeline
Original submission: 31 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 5 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172456.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors describe a method to make 3D porous carbon using Digested Sludge. But the method
used to prepare this carbon is a routine method used to make carbon form natural products or
wastes i.e Hydrothermal Carbonization followed by activation using KOH.
Can authors explain in detail the synthesis procedures for 3 materials they have compared. If
DSC-600 is pyrolized at 600C and activated at 800C? What about DSC-800 and HPDSC? Clarity to
distinguish between these is essential.
The scale for XPS should be same for all cases.
The surface area of HPDSC is way to higher that DSC-600/800? Reason? Are the later not
activated? Hence clear material synthesis description is essential.
The DSC-800 shows hump around 350 cm-1 in Raman? Can authors comment on that? Tiny
features are also seen in HPDSC sample.
Have authors tried using Organic electrolyte for super-capacitor measurements? How does this
material perform?
Did authors try to vary the KOH ratio? Or the time of annealing?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Comments to the Author
The whole work is interesting. The following points should be carefully considered for better
improving the current work. I suggest the manuscript can be recommended to be published after
the following questions are addressed well.
1. Authors stated that “For this reason, heteroatom-doped carbon materials with large surface
areas and appropriate pore size distribution are desirable for the electrodes in EDLCs. ”. I
strongly agree with your point. And, introducing defects into carbon materials can also improve
the electrochemical performance. Some literatures are suggested be added in Introduction, such
as: J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 908; Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 7185–7192; Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 7045–
7050.
2. In Fig. 2f, the ratio of ID/IG should be added and analyzed. Ref: Journal of Power Sources 362
(2017) 64-72; Adv. Sci. 2017, 1700687; Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 1704463.
3. The equation of energy density and power density is useless. Suggest authors delete the
relevant statements. In the three-electrode cell, these equations are not accuracy, which are more
widely used in two-electrode cell or the asymmetric supercapacitors.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172456)
09-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Zhang:
Title: Digested sludge-derived 3D hierarchical porous carbon for high performance
supercapacitor electrode
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172456
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
4
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172456
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Feb-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
6
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors describe a method to make 3D porous carbon using Digested Sludge. But the method
used to prepare this carbon is a routine method used to make carbon form natural products or
wastes i.e Hydrothermal Carbonization followed by activation using KOH.
Can authors explain in detail the synthesis procedures for 3 materials they have compared. If
DSC-600 is pyrolized at 600C and activated at 800C? What about DSC-800 and HPDSC? Clarity to
distinguish between these is essential.
The scale for XPS should be same for all cases.
The surface area of HPDSC is way to higher that DSC-600/800? Reason? Are the later not
activated? Hence clear material synthesis description is essential.
The DSC-800 shows hump around 350 cm-1 in Raman? Can authors comment on that? Tiny
features are also seen in HPDSC sample.
Have authors tried using Organic electrolyte for super-capacitor measurements? How does this
material perform?
Did authors try to vary the KOH ratio? Or the time of annealing?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Comments to the Author
The whole work is interesting. The following points should be carefully considered for better
improving the current work. I suggest the manuscript can be recommended to be published after
the following questions are addressed well.
7
1. Authors stated that “For this reason, heteroatom-doped carbon materials with large surface
areas and appropriate pore size distribution are desirable for the electrodes in EDLCs. ”. I
strongly agree with your point. And, introducing defects into carbon materials can also improve
the electrochemical performance. Some literatures are suggested be added in Introduction, such
as: J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 908; Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 7185–7192; Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 7045–
7050.
2. In Fig. 2f, the ratio of ID/IG should be added and analyzed. Ref: Journal of Power Sources 362
(2017) 64-72; Adv. Sci. 2017, 1700687; Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 1704463.
3. The equation of energy density and power density is useless. Suggest authors delete the
relevant statements. In the three-electrode cell, these equations are not accuracy, which are more
widely used in two-electrode cell or the asymmetric supercapacitors.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172456)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172456.R1)
05-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Zhang:
Title: Digested sludge-derived 3D hierarchical porous carbon for high performance
supercapacitor electrode
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172456.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
8
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Response to Referees
Dear Editors and Reviewers:
Thank you for your letter and for the reviewers’ comments concerning our manuscript entitled “Digested
sludge-derived 3D hierarchical porous carbon for high performance supercapacitor electrode’’ (ID:
label_version_2
RSOS-172456).Those comments are all valuable and very helpful for revising and improving our paper,
as well as the important guiding significance to our researches. We have studied comments carefully and
have made correction which we hope meet with approval. Revised portion are marked in red in the
paper. The main corrections in the paper and the responds to the reviewer’s comments are as flowing:
Responds to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer #1:
1. Response to comment: Can authors explain in detail the synthesis procedures for 3 materials they
have compared?
Response:
We are very sorry for our negligence of clear material synthesis description. The synthesis procedures
for 3 materials are as follows: the obtained digested sludge was vacuum freeze-dried and then pyrolyzed
at 600 <U+F0B0>C or 800 <U+F0B0>C under 150 ml min-1 of N2 flow for 2 h. After natural cooling to ambient temperature
in the N2 flow, the product was immersed in 20 wt% HF and 1 M HCI aqueous solution to remove
impurities. The resultant carbon materials were denoted as DSC-600 and DSC-800, respectively. Then,
the DSC-600 was blended with KOH at a mass ratio of 1:3(WDSC-600/WKOH) and heated to 800 °C for
2 h. After being cleaned and dried, the resultant hierarchical porous digested sludge carbon was denoted
as HPDSC.
DSC-600 was pyrolized carbonization at 600<U+F0B0>C and was not KOH activated at 800<U+F0B0>C. DSC-800 was
pyrolized carbonization at 800<U+F0B0>C and was not KOH activated at 800<U+F0B0>C. HPDSC was pyrolized
carbonization at 600<U+F0B0>C and then was KOH activated at 800<U+F0B0>C .
2. Response to comment: The scale for XPS should be same for all cases.
Response:
We are very sorry for our incorrect setting the scale of XPS. We have re-written this part according to
the Reviewer’s suggestion.
3. Response to comment: The surface area of HPDSC is way to higher that DSC-600/800? Reason? Are
the later not activated?
Response:
HPDSC has a specific surface area of 2103.6 m2 g-1, which is the highest among three materials (the
specific surface area of DSC-800 and DSC-600 are 302.9 and 418.8 m2 g-1, respectively). This high
surface area of HPDSC could be due to the thorough KOH activation of carbon materials. KOH activation
promotes a simultaneous increase in micropore content and the significant development of mesopores in
the materials. DSC-600 and DSC-800 were not KOH activation.
4. Response to comment: The DSC-800 shows hump around 350 cm-1 in Raman?
Response: The hump at around 350 cm-1 in Raman may be caused by some residual metal ion in the
carbon material. We are very sorry for we're not sure about the type of metal ion.
5. Response to comment: Have authors tried using Organic electrolyte for super-capacitor
measurements? How does this material perform?
Response: In this experiment, we used the Na2SO4 aqueous solution as electrolyte and didn’t use
organic electrolyte for super-capacitor measurements. In future research, we will study the performance
of the three carbon materials in organic electrolyte.
6. Response to comment: Did authors try to vary the KOH ratio? Or the time of annealing?
Response: In the pre-experiment, we researched the effect of KOH ratio (1:1, 1:3 and 1:5) and time of
annealing on material properties. According to the experimental results, the annealing time has almost
no effect on the material properties while the best result was obtained when KOH ratio was 1:3.
Special thanks to you for your good comments.
Reviewer #2:
1. Response to comment: Introducing defects into carbon materials can also improve the
electrochemical performance. Some literatures are suggested be added in Introduction, such as: J.
Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 908; Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 7185–7192; Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 7045–7050.
Response: It is really true that introducing defects into carbon materials can also improve the
electrochemical performance.Considering the Reviewer’s suggestion, we added the three literatures in
Introduction (Page 2, paragraph 2).
2. Response to comment: In Fig. 2f, the ratio of ID/IG should be added and analyzed. Ref: Journal of
Power Sources 362 (2017) 64-72; Adv. Sci. 2017, 1700687; Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 1704463.
Response: We have re-written this part according to the Reviewer’s suggestion and cited the three
literatures in Page 9, paragraph 2. The D band reflects the degree of defects in carbon, whereas the G
band corresponds to the degree to which the materials are graphitized. The ID/IG values (the intensity
ratio of D band to G band) of DSC-600, DSC-800 and HPDSC are 0.86, 0.91 and 0.98, respectively.
These results suggest that higher carbonization temperature and the KOH activation process promote
the production of defects from the ideal graphitic lattice.
3. Response to comment: The equation of energy density and power density is useless. Suggest authors
delete the relevant statements.
Response: It is really true as Reviewer suggested that the equations of energy density and power
density are more widely used in two-electrode cell or the asymmetric supercapacitors. We have deleted
the relevant statements.
Special thanks to you for your good comments.
Other changes:
1. Page 9, paragraph 2, the statements of “We were not required to complete an ethical assessment
prior to conducting our research.” was added.
2. Page 9, paragraph 2, the statements of “All relevant data are available from the Dryad Digital
Repository:( https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.pq74j0d)” was added.
3. Page 9, paragraph 2, the statements of “ The authors wish to thank the National Natural Science
Foundation of China (51678426; 51538008)” was corrected as “Our paper was supported by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (51678426; 51538008)”.
4. Page 9, paragraph 2, the statements of “We acknowledge useful input from two anonymous
reviewers.” was added.
We tried our best to improve the manuscript and made some changes in the manuscript. These changes
will not influence the content and framework of the paper. And here we did not list the changes but
marked in red in revised paper.
We appreciate for Editors/Reviewers’ warm work earnestly, and hope that the correction will meet with
approval.
Once again, thank you very much for your comments and suggestion
Society Open
