The development of a segment-based musculoskeletal
model of the lower limb: introducing FreeBody
Daniel J. Cleather and Anthony M. J. Bull
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140449.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140449
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 16 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 17 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 29 May 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140121.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Florent Moissenet)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No supplementary files. The supporting data and methodology are the same than in the previous
work of the author.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The aim of this manuscript is to explore the impact of different levels of simplifications that can
be made in the equation of motion on the outputs of a musculoskeletal model. Five
simplifications are described: 1) consider equation of motion related to forces and moments
independently, 2) use a joint-based approach describing only forces and moments acting on the
joints, 3) use a reduced number of DOF, 4) use a reduced number of muscular lines of action, 5)
use a simple joint to model the knee without introducing the patellofemoral joint and the two
compartments of the tibiofemoral joint. The results tend to show that including more details in
the model allow reducing the joint contact forces. However some information are necessary to
better explain the results obtained for joint contact forces and a quantitative validation may be
required for the muscular forces compared to EMG signals. Details are listed below.
Title
---------------------------------------------------
/
Abstract
---------------------------------------------------
/
Introduction
---------------------------------------------------
- P4 L67 Since the method is based on inverse dynamics, it is better to use the term “estimation”
rather than “prediction” for joint contact, ligament and muscular forces. Please consider to
change it in the whole manuscript.
- P4 L80-90 Restraining the number of DOF by imposing kinematic constraints if of course
questionable is case of some pathologies. However, allowing too many DOF may introduce
aphysiological muscular forces patterns due to, for example, soft tissue artefact. How the author
plans to avoid such perturbations?
Materials and Methods
---------------------------------------------------
- P7 L150-151 The use of coupling curves is often questionable. Could this model of the patella
be a limit of the personalisation of the whole model? In other words, how to adjust it for a specific
subject?
- P15 L230-231 In Case 4, the medial and lateral tibiofemoral contact forces are computed at the
points described at 2cm laterally and medially to the centre of rotation. However, the position of
these points has a direct impact on the estimated forces. How this distance has been selected?
Results
---------------------------------------------------
- P18 L271-273 Are the % of solution an average for all the subjects? If yes, please give the
standard deviations. If not, explain these values …
- P18 L274-277 Since the discussion is based on the fact that Case 4 is the best one, the author
should provide a figure validating the fact that the non-solved frames of Case 5 and 6 are the
frames of highest joint contact forces.
-P18 L280-282 Since the figure 3 only shows the muscular activations of one subject for one
case, the level of proof of this affirmation is poor. Please provide a quantified metric to justify the
fact that muscular activations show a “marked similarity in the patterns and timing”.
- P19 L286-289 Since a variability in the muscular recruitment seems to be possible (as it has
been shown for the hamstrings), it would have been better to use a new dataset with EMG
3
measurements. Moreover, only a qualitative comparison (“a close level of agreement”) is
provided here to compare EMG envelops and estimations. Please consider to define and use a
quantitative metric for this comparison. Please also discuss the use of EMG from other subjects.
Discussion
---------------------------------------------------
- P20 L312-313 Is it really a “validation”? The only measurements that can be used to “validate”
the model are EMG envelopes extract from another study (Rodacki et al.). A quantitative metric
should at least be used to compare EMG and estimated forces in order to use the term
“validation”.
- P20 L323 A similar study already provided similar results about the effect of the inclusion
of increased model details on joint contact forces:
Dumas R. et al., 2012, Influence of joint models on lower-limb musculo-tendon forces and three-
dimensional joint reaction forces during gait, Proc IMechE Part H: J Engineering in Medicine
226(2): 146-160.
- P21 L331-333 Please explain why all the frames are not solved by the model. Is it due to a
restraint solution space? A numerical problem? Some badly defined upper/lower limbs? Please
discuss this point.
Tables & Figures
---------------------------------------------------
- Table 3The number (7) of the reference Cleather et al. is not correct.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Here, the authors provide some of the input data (kinematics, kinetics) but other data such as
information on the stiffness of the ligaments or segment lengths for each of the subjects are not
given. It is also not clear whether and if so the authors made any changes to the anatomical data
from Klein Horseman.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper deals with computational modelling approaches for determining the forces within the
musculoskeletal system. Here, models of knee joint mechanics capturing varying levels of
complexity are applied to study the muscle and joint contact forces during a vertical jump.
4
Although the study presents new data, the reviewer has a number of concerns regarding the
study design but also its presentation.
Firstly, although the author repeatedly refers to the issue of model fidelity and clinical relevance
of the predictions of such models, they do not provide any operational definition of what clinical
relevance constitutes in this context. Clearly, clinical relevance would have to be derived from the
models ability to differentiate clinically important conditions and this is likely quite dependent
upon the specific problem at hand. Conceptually, any model requires – by the very nature of the
act of modelling – some sort of simplification, and the key question here seems to be whether the
model at hand provides a valid representation of the very aspect of reality that is of interest.
Therefore, it would appear that a much more accurate framing of the problem, ideally also
together with the formulation of a clear hypothesis would be essential to focus the paper and
enable achieving a substantial scientific advance. Whilst the author can show clear variations
between the calculations across the different models, this hypothesis-free study does not apply
any statistical analyses to test the significance of these variations. Importantly, the study design
does not allow providing a definitive answer to the question which of the results provides a
better match to the actual in vivo loading conditions. Here, the application of the methodology to
a data set for which e.g. subject specific EMG and also in vivo joint contact force data were
available (such as the cited knee challenge data sets) would be critical to clarify in how far a
change in the computed results for the different models indeed represents an improvement of the
predictions. Alternatively, rather than applying the analyses to a cohort of healthy individuals
only, the application of the model to a clinical cohort undergoing an intervention could have
offered the opportunity to assess the ability of the model to detect differences in mechanics with a
clinical significance. Given these limitations, the discussion seems overly optimistic in terms of
the “validity” of the different models, and actual impact on our understanding of the subject
matters remains somewhat limited.
The following specific comments should serve to further improve the manuscript.
L 23ff The introduction is rather unspecific and lengthy – focussing on the key issue at hand
could help making this more concise. How many groups have done what and the fact that a
model (see comment above) will always and inherently require some form of simplification are
not important here.
L 31ff On the other hand, the summary remains very vague as to the specifics of the knee models
used and compared here – are the TF and PF joints really modelled as 6DOF joint (i.e. ALL
DoFs?) and details of the PF and TF joints is really captured - there is no elastic contact, PF
kinematics are not really force-dependent nor truly 3D, … these aspects would require
clarification.
L 34f Similar to the issue of a lack of a definition of when clinical relevance is achieved, there is
also no clear definition of “anatomical reality” or how deviations from it would be quantified.
The claim that muscle forces are in “ close agreement” with anatomical reality is therefore also
misleading at best (what is the error in force magnitude, timing, …numbers?).
L 35f Without a more rigorous mathematical/numerical explanation the failure to find a solution
to the optimization problem appears a poor metric for judging the quality of the model. Here, the
author would need to offer some evidence that the lack of finding a solution is indeed related to
very nature of the optimization problem (i.e. it cannot be solved under the given constraints) and
not a numerical artefact of the specific solver used here.
L 46 There should clearly be more appropriate i.e. classic and widely accepted papers to support
this statement than a rather recent paper of the author themselves?
5
L 48f Which result of an intervention is simulated here – how is this bit relevant to the current
study?
L 53/54 See general comment – as presented here this is an unsubstantiated argument.
L 55/56 This does not seem to be a correct statement of the issue – a typical inverse dynamics
analysis (Winter 1979) would provide intersegmental resultant forces and moments. However,
such models would neither consider the action of muscles, ligaments, deformable contact …?!
L 71ff This para is generally very vague and would certainly need to be revised – how the two
approaches really differ did not become clear.
L 78/79 This is not adding any relevant information – what additional insights would be
provided? Why are they relevant?
L85ff Here you derive clinical relevance from your own belief – which is not very convincing. In
the context that you set here though, one would expect that you a) either demonstrate that you
can indeed predict ligament forces accurately or that b) you can show the ability to make
predictions related to an intervention where you can pick up a clinically important difference
L92 ff What is the exact point of that paragraph here? Would the model complexity not have to be
guided by the exact question? What is the lack of understanding that the readers needs to take
away here?
L 109 It would appear that the contact force distribution was of interest for quite a while (e.g.
Kettelkamp & Chao 1972) – there might have been a revived / increased interest in evaluating the
accuracy of models predicting the ML load distributions which has been fuelled by the recent
ability to compare the predictions against direct in vivo measurements from the Bergmann group
and the data from the US
L 112/3 Models and simplifications …
L 136 The terminology is quite confusing and not used consistently – here the patella is e.g. a
segment, while it does not appear to have its own inertial properties; also the “leg” would appear
to be more appropriately referred to as “ thigh”?
L 144 The reference to a potential future paper does not help the reader here – please provide all
necessary information here. Please also include some description of how the geometry of the
model was mapped/changed to fit each of the subjects.
Please clarify whether the JRFs are the bone one bone contact forces or the intersegmental
resultant forces as defined by Winter.
L 239 ff Referring to a centre of rotation implies a ball and socket joint – where is the CoR of the
knee? Also, the description of the contact model is not very clear – it seems to be a rather basic
model though? How exactly were the ligaments modelled – as linear springs (which stiffness)?
L 246 “frame” is “time point”?
L 265 How much of the dynamics of the external loading is missed by sampling the GRFs at this
rather low frequency?
Tables and figures have little explanation that would help understanding what is shown (units
and abbreviations are not always given/explained)
6
Figure 2: Here an additional temporal representation to illustrate under which exact conditions
no solution was found would be help full (i.e. frequency plot, for each percent gait cycle the
(relative) number of failures in finding an optimal solution)
Table 3: At which time point did the peaks occur?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140121)
05-Sep-2014
Dear Professor Cleather:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140121 entitled "Optimization based approaches to inverse dynamics are
sensitive to the anatomical detail incorporated within the equations of motion" which you
submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are
included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by within 6 months. If you are unable to
submit by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Best wishes,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140449.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Florent Moissenet)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
7
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supplementary material is provided. The data are well organised, clear, readable. Subjects
provided informed consent prior to the data collection process.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This revised manuscript has been extended and gives new details about the message of the paper
and methods. Particularly, Results and Discussion have been markedly improved by removing
some simulations and by using a validation metric. Details are listed below.
Title
---------------------------------------------------
/
Abstract
---------------------------------------------------
/
Introduction
---------------------------------------------------
- P4 L71-74 - Other studies have previously been proposed segment-based models for the lower
limb (ref [10]) and the upper limb (Pennestri et al.., Virtual musculo-skeletal model for the
biomechanical analysis of the upper limb, Journal of Biomechanics 40 (2007) 1350–1361).
Materials and Methods
---------------------------------------------------
- Patellar post. - Table 2 gives the result of the mixing of 3 datasets ([4], [15], [16]) to obtain a
polynomial form giving the position and orientation of the patellar segment regarding the knee
flexion angle. However, did the authors took care to redefine each dataset following the same
LCS (center of the frame and definition of each axis) (i.e., the one used in [4]) ?
- P19 L302-304 - Please give the method followed to obtain EMG envelopes (filtering, RMS, ...).
Indeed, the method can highly influence the results.
Results
---------------------------------------------------
/
Discussion
---------------------------------------------------
- P21 L339 - Consider changing “EMG values” for “EMG envelopes” (also L341, L345 and P22
L352)
8
- P21 L341-344 - Please discuss the possible reasons making the estimations of hamstrings and
gastrocnemii forces, both biarticular muscle groups, worse than for the other muscles.
Tables & Figures
---------------------------------------------------
- Figure 3 - Consider changing “EMG activation” for “EMG envelopes”
- Table 1 - Consider changing “calf segment” for “shank segmen” as used in the text.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This manuscript describes the development of a musculoskeletal model of the lower limb based
on the authors' previously published model, which they used to estimate muscle and joint contact
forces during vertical jumping. The revised model is segment-based and has a similar ability to
estimate muscle forces during vertical jumping as the previous approaches described by the
authors. I do not see this as a major contribution and suggest further development and
application prior to publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140449)
13-Apr-2015
label_version_3
RSOS-140449 - The development of a segment-based musculoskeletal model of the lower limb:
Introducing FreeBody
Dear Professor Cleather,
Apologies for the delay in contacting you with this decision. As you are aware one of the
originally agreed reviewers was unable to review your manuscript and we spent a significant
amount of time seeking a replacement. Although we invited many more reviewers we were
unable to secure a second review and due to the time elapsed I have discussed your manuscript
with the Subject Editor and we have been able to make a decision based on the one report we do
9
have. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee's suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance. Please also ensure that you clarify how this work is an
advance over your previous work on this model and how it merits a separate publication,
especially as one of the previous reviewers requested that the clinical significance of the model be
explored, but you mention that this will be done in a later paper.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 05-May-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
10
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix B.
label_version_4
RSOS-140449.R1 (Revision)
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Florent Moissenet)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supplementary material are adequate and clear.
The website www.msksoftware.org.uk mentioned in the&quot;Data Accessibility&quot; is not
yet available.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
11
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The revised manuscript presents clear and detailed information of a new musculoskeletal model.
The originality of the work is well explained and a correct quantitative validation is provided.
The reviewer does not have any specific comment.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140449.R1)
22-May-2015
Dear Professor Cleather:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140449.R1
entitled "The development of a segment-based musculoskeletal model of the lower limb:
Introducing FreeBody" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the below editorial comments
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Data accessibility
Thank you for providing raw data as supplementary information. Please also provide your
software code as supplementary material. It is not sufficient to post it on a website which has the
potential to go down in the future (in fact I note that it is currently not live).
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-May-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
12
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Dr Kevin Padian
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The revised manuscript presents clear and detailed information of a new musculoskeletal model.
The originality of the work is well explained and a correct quantitative validation is provided.
The reviewer does not have any specific comment.
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix C.
Appendix A
Response to Reviewers
Note to both reviewers:
My colleague Anthony Bull has joined me as an author on this
manuscript. This is because in addressing the reviewers’ comments we
have rolled a separate paper that we were writing together into this one.
In particular, the additional detail as to the musculoskeletal geometry of
the model was taken from this paper as was the description of the
publicly available version of this model. Anthony was involved in the
design and execution of the model described and has been heavily
involved in the rewriting of this revised submission.
Reviewer: 1
The aim of this manuscript is to explore the impact of different levels of simplifications
that can be made in the equation of motion on the outputs of a musculoskeletal model.
Five simplifications are described: 1) consider equation of motion related to forces and
moments independently, 2) use a joint-based approach describing only forces and
moments acting on the joints, 3) use a reduced number of DOF, 4) use a reduced
number of muscular lines of action, 5) use a simple joint to model the knee without
introducing the patellofemoral joint and the two compartments of the tibiofemoral joint.
The results tend to show that including more details in the model allow reducing the
joint contact forces. However some information are necessary to better explain the
results obtained for joint contact forces and a quantitative validation may be required
for the muscular forces compared to EMG signals. Details are listed below.
We thank the reviewer for their thoughtful review of this work. We have
made substantial changes to the manuscript in response to their
comments and feel that it has been markedly improved due to their
involvement. In particular, in response to this reviewer’s comments we
have performed a quantitative comparison of the model estimations to the
EMG data (using a Geers’ metric), and this forms the basis of the model
evaluation now. We have also removed Cases 5 and 6 which we believe
increases the clarity of the results obtained for joint contact forces.
Title
---------------------------------------------------
/
Abstract
---------------------------------------------------
/
Introduction
---------------------------------------------------
- P4 L67 Since the method is based on inverse dynamics, it is better to use the term
“estimation” rather than “prediction” for joint contact, ligament and muscular forces.
Please consider to change it in the whole manuscript.
Changed accordingly.
- P4 L80-90 Restraining the number of DOF by imposing kinematic constraints if of
course questionable is case of some pathologies. However, allowing too many DOF may
introduce aphysiological muscular forces patterns due to, for example, soft tissue
artefact. How the author plans to avoid such perturbations?
This discussion has been removed in response to the second reviewer’s
comments (as described below).
However, we have addressed this issue in the discussion.
“The potential problem of soft tissue artefacts is ameliorated by using a
redundant number of markers on each segment, and then using the
method of Horn [13] to find the best fit.”
It should also be noted that the analysis of muscular forces compared to
(physiological) EMG activations presented in this paper does not suggest
that this model calculates aphysiological muscular force patterns.
Materials and Methods
---------------------------------------------------
- P7 L150-151 The use of coupling curves is often questionable. Could this model of the
patella be a limit of the personalisation of the whole model? In other words, how to
adjust it for a specific subject?
This is a key issue, and we have added the following to the discussion:
“The patella model incorporated within this model is simple – the
movement of the patella is entirely determined by the flexion of the
tibiofemoral joint, and this relationship is not changed to reflect subject
specific characteristics. The movement of the patella can have an
important impact on the outputs of a musculoskeletal model, in large part
due to its effect on the P/Q ratio and in turn the tension required in the
quadriceps musculature. In our future work we will develop the model
described here to permit a subject specific scaling of the patellofemoral
model which, in particular, produces an accurate, subject specific P/Q
ratio. “
- P15 L230-231 In Case 4, the medial and lateral tibiofemoral contact forces are
computed at the points described at 2cm laterally and medially to the centre of
rotation. However, the position of these points has a direct impact on the estimated
forces. How this distance has been selected?
We have clarified how the contact points have been selected:
For Cases 1-3 the joint reaction forces are considered to act through the
centres of rotation of the joints taken from the Klein Horsman et al. data
set [14]. In Case 4, the lateral and medial tibiofemoral contact forces act
through points 2 cm laterally and medially to the centre of rotation (an
inter-condyle distance of 4 cm was chosen following the example of
previous work [21]).
Results
---------------------------------------------------
- P18 L271-273 Are the % of solution an average for all the subjects? If yes, please
give the standard deviations. If not, explain these values …
Yes this is an average. We have added the standard deviation:
“On average, the optimization was able to find a solution for 95.1±6.2%
of the analysed frames.”
- P18 L274-277 Since the discussion is based on the fact that Case 4 is the best one,
the author should provide a figure validating the fact that the non-solved frames of
Case 5 and 6 are the frames of highest joint contact forces.
As described in the response to the second reviewer, we have removed
Cases 5 and 6, and so this is now a moot point.
-P18 L280-282 Since the figure 3 only shows the muscular activations of one subject
for one case, the level of proof of this affirmation is poor. Please provide a quantified
metric to justify the fact that muscular activations show a “marked similarity in the
patterns and timing”.
As described in the response to the general comments, we have added
some new analysis and discussion to quantify the similarity between
EMG and predicted muscle forces. The new figure now compares the
mean curve of all subjects to the EMG data, and the similarity between
the curves is quantified by using the Geers’ metric.
- P19 L286-289 Since a variability in the muscular recruitment seems to be possible (as
it has been shown for the hamstrings), it would have been better to use a new dataset
with EMG measurements. Moreover, only a qualitative comparison (“a close level of
agreement”) is provided here to compare EMG envelops and estimations. Please
consider to define and use a quantitative metric for this comparison. Please also discuss
the use of EMG from other subjects.
As described in the response above, we have now used a quantitative
metric for this comparison.
As requested we have also added some discussion of the use of EMG from
other subjects:
“It should be noted that muscle estimations and EMG values that were
compared in this study were not recorded concurrently, nor taken from
the same subjects. Although this is a clear limitation of the study, and
could account for some of the differences between the curves, there is
evidence that the muscular activations during vertical jumping are
remarkably stable between subjects and across jump conditions [29].
Therefore, given that the comparisons here are between group mean
curves this was considered an acceptable limitation. In future work we
will seek to make the same comparisons at the subject level.”
Discussion
---------------------------------------------------
- P20 L312-313 Is it really a “validation”? The only measurements that can be used to
“validate” the model are EMG envelopes extract from another study (Rodacki et al.). A
quantitative metric should at least be used to compare EMG and estimated forces in
order to use the term “validation”.
As described above, we have now used a quantitative metric for this
comparison. In addition, we have been careful not to use the term
“validation” in the revised paper.
- P20 L323 A similar study already provided similar results about the effect of the
inclusion of increased model details on joint contact forces:
Dumas R. et al., 2012, Influence of joint models on lower-limb musculo-tendon forces
and three-dimensional joint reaction forces during gait, Proc IMechE Part H: J
Engineering in Medicine 226(2): 146-160.
We have removed the discussion of model details. However, a reference
to these previous results has been added to the document in support of
the discussion of the impact of increased DOF.
- P21 L331-333 Please explain why all the frames are not solved by the model. Is it due
to a restraint solution space? A numerical problem? Some badly defined upper/lower
limbs? Please discuss this point.
We have added the following discussion:
The larger number of DOF does bring its own costs however. In
particular, the model presented here is not able to find a solution for all
of the frames analysed. We believe this is a problem that would be
eliminated as more detail is added to the model (by providing a greater
number and variability in the lines of action of force to compensate for
the greater number of DOF [1,36,37]).
Tables & Figures
---------------------------------------------------
- Table 3 The number (7) of the reference Cleather et al. is not correct.
Corrected.
Florent Moissenet
Reviewer: 2
The paper deals with computational modelling approaches for determining the forces
within the musculoskeletal system. Here, models of knee joint mechanics capturing
varying levels of complexity are applied to study the muscle and joint contact forces
during a vertical jump. Although the study presents new data, the reviewer has a
number of concerns regarding the study design but also its presentation.
Firstly, although the author repeatedly refers to the issue of model fidelity and clinical
relevance of the predictions of such models, they do not provide any operational
definition of what clinical relevance constitutes in this context. Clearly, clinical
relevance would have to be derived from the models ability to differentiate clinically
important conditions and this is likely quite dependent upon the specific problem at
hand. Conceptually, any model requires – by the very nature of the act of modelling –
some sort of simplification, and the key question here seems to be whether the model
at hand provides a valid representation of the very aspect of reality that is of interest.
Therefore, it would appear that a much more accurate framing of the problem, ideally
also together with the formulation of a clear hypothesis would be essential to focus the
paper and enable achieving a substantial scientific advance. Whilst the author can show
clear variations between the calculations across the different models, this hypothesis-
free study does not apply any statistical analyses to test the significance of these
variations. Importantly, the study design does not allow providing a definitive answer
to the question which of the results provides a better match to the actual in vivo
loading conditions. Here, the application of the methodology to a data set for which e.g.
subject specific EMG and also in vivo joint contact force data were available (such as
the cited knee challenge data sets) would be critical to clarify in how far a change in the
computed results for the different models indeed represents an improvement of the
predictions. Alternatively, rather than applying the analyses to a cohort of healthy
individuals only, the application of the model to a clinical cohort undergoing an
intervention could have offered the opportunity to assess the ability of the model to
detect differences in mechanics with a clinical significance. Given these limitations, the
discussion seems overly optimistic in terms of the “validity” of the different models, and
actual impact on our understanding of the subject matters remains somewhat limited.
We agree with the reviewer that the message of this paper was not
entirely clear. We have extensively overhauled the manuscript in order to
give a clearer and more consistent message, as outlined below:
Firstly, the title of the paper has been changed to reflect the revised
narrative:
“The development of a segment based musculoskeletal model of the lower
limb: Introducing FreeBody”
The focus of the paper has been changed to the development of a
segment-based model. The introduction now gives a clear justification of
this direction, and has been considerably shortened.
We have added a large amount of detail relating to the characteristics of
the model. In addition, we have added a section describing where the
interested reader can obtain their own version of the model.
Finally, the reviewer is entirely right that the ability of the model to
detect clinical differences is of importance. This is a question that we
have addressed in depth in an upcoming paper.
The following specific comments should serve to further improve the manuscript.
L 23ff The introduction is rather unspecific and lengthy – focussing on the key issue at
hand could help making this more concise. How many groups have done what and the
fact that a model (see comment above) will always and inherently require some form of
simplification are not important here.
We agree that the key message in the previous introduction was unclear.
We have considerably shortened the introduction to focus on the key
issue in hand – i.e. the development of a segment-based model. We have
moved some of the text from the introduction to the discussion in order to
contextualize how this model is different to previous models in the
literature.
L 31ff On the other hand, the summary remains very vague as to the specifics of the
knee models used and compared here – are the TF and PF joints really modelled as
6DOF joint (i.e. ALL DoFs?) and details of the PF and TF joints is really captured - there
is no elastic contact, PF kinematics are not really force-dependent nor truly 3D, … these
aspects would require clarification.
We have considerably expanded the description of the joint contacts
within the main body of the article.
“The position at which the joint reaction forces are considered to act is
defined in the following way. The joint contact points are assumed to be
the joint centres given in the Klein Horsman et al. [14] data set. These
are defined to be fixed within the distal segment of a joint – thus the
contact position on the proximal segment is not fixed, and will change if
there is a translation of the two segments relative to one another. The
contact surfaces are assumed to be rigid in this model.”
and:
“The patellofemoral joint contact position is found for each frame by
finding this pivot point, which is in turn used to define the contact
position between the patella and thigh segments.”
The ankle, tibiofemoral and hip joints are modeled with 6DOF and we
have clarified this in the document.
“It should be noted that each segment has a full complement of 6
degrees of freedom (DOF) and there are no constraints imposed based
upon considerations of the kinematics of the joints (with the exception of
the patellofemoral joint). This means that each joint effectively has 6
DOF too (apart from the patellofemoral joint), although this is not
explicitly described in the model.”
The reviewer is correct that the PF kinematics are not 3D. We have
clarified this – please see the response to reviewer 1.
In addition, there is now considerable discussion of the differences
between this model and other similar ones in the discussion. This
provides further clarification on these issues.
Finally, the abstract has been completely redrafted to reflect the revised
message of the paper.
L 34f Similar to the issue of a lack of a definition of when clinical relevance is achieved,
there is also no clear definition of “anatomical reality” or how deviations from it would
be quantified. The claim that muscle forces are in “ close agreement” with anatomical
reality is therefore also misleading at best (what is the error in force magnitude,
timing, …numbers?).
We have presented a new analysis as to the comparison of EMG to
predicted muscle forces which is quantitative in nature (i.e. the Geers’
metric which is described in the response to the first reviewer).
L 35f Without a more rigorous mathematical/numerical explanation the failure to find a
solution to the optimization problem appears a poor metric for judging the quality of
the model. Here, the author would need to offer some evidence that the lack of finding
a solution is indeed related to very nature of the optimization problem (i.e. it cannot be
solved under the given constraints) and not a numerical artefact of the specific solver
used here.
We agree that the lack of a solution is a poor metric for assessing the
quality of the model and we have removed this discussion (instead
focusing on the Geers’ metric which is described in the response to the
first reviewer).
L 46 There should clearly be more appropriate i.e. classic and widely accepted papers
to support this statement than a rather recent paper of the author themselves?
We have added some further support for this statement:
Erdemir, A., McLean, S., Herzog, W. & van den Bogert, A. J. 2007
Model-based estimation of muscle forces exerted during movements. Clin.
Biomech. 22, 131–154.
Van den Bogert, A. J. & Schamhardt, H. C. 1993 Multi-body modelling
and simulation of animal locomotion. Acta Anat. (Basel) 146, 95–102.
Blemker, S. S., Asakawa, D. S., Gold, G. E. & Delp, S. L. 2007 Image-
based musculoskeletal modeling: Applications, advances, and future
opportunities. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 25, 441–451.
(doi:10.1002/jmri.20805)
L 48f Which result of an intervention is simulated here – how is this bit relevant to the
current study?
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L 53/54 See general comment – as presented here this is an unsubstantiated
argument.
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L 55/56 This does not seem to be a correct statement of the issue – a typical inverse
dynamics analysis (Winter 1979) would provide intersegmental resultant forces and
moments. However, such models would neither consider the action of muscles,
ligaments, deformable contact …?!
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L 71ff This para is generally very vague and would certainly need to be revised – how
the two approaches really differ did not become clear.
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L 78/79 This is not adding any relevant information – what additional insights would be
provided? Why are they relevant?
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L85ff Here you derive clinical relevance from your own belief – which is not very
convincing. In the context that you set here though, one would expect that you a)
either demonstrate that you can indeed predict ligament forces accurately or that b)
you can show the ability to make predictions related to an intervention where you can
pick up a clinically important difference
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L92 ff What is the exact point of that paragraph here? Would the model complexity not
have to be guided by the exact question? What is the lack of understanding that the
readers needs to take away here?
This point is now moot, as this discussion has been removed in the new
introduction.
L 109 It would appear that the contact force distribution was of interest for quite a
while (e.g. Kettelkamp & Chao 1972) – there might have been a revived / increased
interest in evaluating the accuracy of models predicting the ML load distributions which
has been fuelled by the recent ability to compare the predictions against direct in vivo
measurements from the Bergmann group and the data from the US
The reviewer is entirely correct, and we have removed this statement.
L 112/3 Models and simplifications …
We’re sorry, but we didn’t understand this point.
L 136 The terminology is quite confusing and not used consistently – here the patella is
e.g. a segment, while it does not appear to have its own inertial properties; also the
“leg” would appear to be more appropriately referred to as “ thigh”?
We have changed “leg” to “thigh” throughout the document. We have
made it explicitly clear that the patella is assumed to be a massless
segment:
“The lower limb is modelled as a 3D arrangement of five rigid segments
that represent the foot, shank, thigh, pelvis and patella (the patella
segment is assumed to have zero mass).”
L 144 The reference to a potential future paper does not help the reader here – please
provide all necessary information here. Please also include some description of how the
geometry of the model was mapped/changed to fit each of the subjects.
Please clarify whether the JRFs are the bone one bone contact forces or the
intersegmental resultant forces as defined by Winter.
We have added extensive additional detail describing the model. This is
mainly on lines 84-159 (although there is some detail in other places too).
We have added Tables 1 and 2, and Figure 1 which provide additional
detail of the model.
We have added details of the scaling methodology in the section
“Scaling”.
The JRFs are bone on bone contact forces. We have made this explicit:
“The 186 unknowns consist of the muscular, ligamentous and joint
reaction forces (bone on bone contact forces) experienced by the lower
limb.”
L 239 ff Referring to a centre of rotation implies a ball and socket joint – where is the
CoR of the knee? Also, the description of the contact model is not very clear – it seems
to be a rather basic model though? How exactly were the ligaments modelled – as
linear springs (which stiffness)?
We have added considerable detail to clarify the contact model:
“The position at which the joint reaction forces are considered to act is
defined in the following way. The joint contact points are assumed to be
the joint centres given in the Klein Horsman et al. [14] data set. These
are defined to be fixed within the distal segment of a joint – thus the
contact position on the proximal segment is not fixed, and will change if
there is a translation of the two segments relative to one another. The
contact surfaces are assumed to be rigid in this model.”
We have also added some more detail as to the ligament model:
“It should be noted that the ligaments are simply modelled as tensile force
actuators. That is, the calculated ligament forces are not derived from
measurements of ligament strain. A detailed justification and analysis of
this approach (including a discussion of limitations) is provided in our
previous work [9].”
L 246 “frame” is “time point”?
Changed accordingly.
L 265 How much of the dynamics of the external loading is missed by sampling the
GRFs at this rather low frequency?
Previous evidence indicates that 200 Hz is a sufficient frequency when
looking at the GRFs in vertical jumping, as there is a minimal difference
when compared to data sampled at 500 Hz. See for instance:
Hori, N. et al. Reliability of performance measurements derived from
ground reaction force data during countermovement jump and the
influence of sampling frequency. J. Strength Cond. Res. 23, 874–882
(2009).
Tables and figures have little explanation that would help understanding what is shown
(units and abbreviations are not always given/explained)
We have revised the legends so that all abbreviations and units are now
defined within the legends.
Figure 2: Here an additional temporal representation to illustrate under which exact
conditions no solution was found would be help full (i.e. frequency plot, for each
percent gait cycle the (relative) number of failures in finding an optimal solution)
As indicated above, we have removed the discussion that relates to the
ability of the optimization to find solutions and consequently have
removed this figure.
Table 3: At which time point did the peaks occur?
Thank you for this comment. However, as the timing of joint contact
forces is not part of the discussion in the revised manuscript we have
chosen not to add this detail to the revised manuscript.
Appendix B
Response to reviewers
label_version_5
RSOS-140449 - The development of a segment-based musculoskeletal model of the lower limb: Introducing
FreeBody
Dear Professor Cleather,
Apologies for the delay in contacting you with this decision. As you are aware one of the originally agreed
reviewers was unable to review your manuscript and we spent a significant amount of time seeking a replacement.
Although we invited many more reviewers we were unable to secure a second review and due to the time elapsed
I have discussed your manuscript with the Subject Editor and we have been able to make a decision based on the
one report we do have. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee's suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Thank you very much for all your work on this manuscript,
and we really appreciate that you were able to come to a
decision based on the one referee’s report.
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance. Please also ensure that you clarify how this
work is an advance over your previous work on this model and how it merits a separate publication, especially as
one of the previous reviewers requested that the clinical significance of the model be explored, but you mention
that this will be done in a later paper.
We would like to assure you that this work is a considerable
advance over our previous work and definitely merits a
separate publication. Although based upon our previous
work, this model is an entirely new version. We have clarified
this:
“This study describes the development of a new musculoskeletal model of the lower
limb that is based upon our previous work [9-11,13]. “
There are a number of features of the model which in
combination make it distinct from all other models in the
literature. These are discussed in detail in lines 374-444 of
the revised manuscript. Of course some of these features are
seen in our previous work. However, the inclusion of the
patellofemoral joint and the partitioning of the tibiofemoral
joint contact forces are entirely new developments of the
model and which represent significant technological
advancements. We have made this more explicit in the
manuscript:
“In the model described here the tibiofemoral joint contact forces are found
simultaneously with the muscle and ligament forces (this represents a considerable
advance over our previous work [9-11]).”
And:
“The position and orientation of the patella is given as a function of the tibiofemoral
joint flexion angle (<U+03B8>) using a new model of the patella that has been developed
from the literature as follows.”
“However, in order to create a segment-based description of the lower limb it was
necessary for us to develop a patella model and to include the patellofemoral joint
contact force.”
The combination of the above changes allows this model to be
entirely segment based. As we have described in the revised
manuscript (in response to the reviewer’s comment below),
these are rare, and this work therefore represents a
significant technological advancement (especially given the
advantages of this model compared to others as has been
described above).
The comparison of Cases 1-4 (for details see Table 3) in this
manuscript evaluates the effect of adding these additional
features to the model (in Tables 6 and 7). This analysis is an
important addition to the modeling literature in providing
information regarding the sensitivity of these types of model
to this addition of this detail.
In our previous work we had not performed a quantitative
validation of the model predictions as has been provided in
our resubmission. In our opinion, this on its own would
justify a separate publication (based upon the precedents
within the literature). We have emphasized the validation
work within the manuscript:
“Taken as a whole, the analysis presented here provides new and quantitative
evidence as to the validity of this lower limb model.”
In addition, the model that we have described in this paper is
freely and publicly available. This is the first time we have
made our model available. Again, there are very few models
of this type freely available. This publication describes this
new model in a consolidated way, and will serve as the point
of record for this model (our previous publications cannot be
used in this way as they describe very different models).
Finally, we believe that we have addressed the clinical
relevance of the model by quantitatively comparing our
estimations to measured values, and establishing a
correspondence. This represents a considerable advance
(and work) over the original submission, and we believe that
this does address the concerns raised by the reviewer in
providing a quantitative estimation as to how the model
estimations relate to the actual in-vivo conditions. Our
approach here also follows the example of other
contemporary model descriptions and validations (e.g.
Moissenet et al. [1], Modenese et al. [2]). We considered it
most appropriate to use the vertical jump data in this analysis
as it allows easy comparison to our previous work.
Of course, the establishment of clinical relevance is a big job.
This paper represents the description of our new model, and
we intend to follow this with a number of papers that describe
its clinical performance in a variety of different scenarios.
This type of work is rare within the literature, and thus the
description of it warrants an extended discussion – for this
reason it can’t be included within this manuscript which is
already very long due to the extensive model description. In
addition, our work on the clinical relevance of the model also
involves the description and exploration of clinical problems.
These are more appropriately described and discussed within
distinct papers, whereas this paper is focused on a discussion
of modeling issues and sensitivities.
As requested, we have added the following statements prior
to the reference list:
“Ethics Statement
The data collection described in this study was approved by the institutional review
board of St Mary’s University College. All participants provided informed consent
prior to the data collection process.
Data Accessibility
The raw data used in this study is provided with this article as electronic
supplementary material. The model that this article describes is available as a
MATLAB® application and in the original source code at www.msksoftware.org.uk.
Competing Interests
The authors have no competing interests.
Authors’ Contributions
DC conceived of and designed the study, designed and created the model, collected
the raw data, performed the analysis and drafted the manuscript; AB participated in
the design of the study, participated in the design of the model and contributed to
the manuscript writing process. Both authors gave final approval for publication.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Phil DB Price for providing the software used to
calculate the Geers’ metric, and Jon E Goodwin and Hayley Legg for their assistance
in collecting the data used in this study.
Funding Statement
No funding was received for this work.”
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This revised manuscript has been extended and gives new details about the message of the paper and methods.
Particularly, Results and Discussion have been markedly improved by removing some simulations and by using a
validation metric. Details are listed below.
We would like to thank the reviewer for their continued
helpful suggestions.
Title
---------------------------------------------------
/
Abstract
---------------------------------------------------
/
Introduction
---------------------------------------------------
- P4 L71-74 - Other studies have previously been proposed segment-based models for the lower limb (ref [10])
and the upper limb (Pennestri et al.., Virtual musculo-skeletal model for the biomechanical analysis of the upper
limb, Journal of Biomechanics 40 (2007) 1350–1361).
Thank you – the reviewer is right and these studies should be
mentioned. We have included the following statement:
“To date, few 3D segment-based models have been proposed within the literature
(notable exceptions being the lower limb model of Moissenet et al. [7]and the upper
limb model of Pennestri et al. [8]). “
Materials and Methods
---------------------------------------------------
- Patellar post. - Table 2 gives the result of the mixing of 3 datasets ([4], [15], [16]) to obtain a polynomial form
giving the position and orientation of the patellar segment regarding the knee flexion angle. However, did the
authors took care to redefine each dataset following the same LCS (center of the frame and definition of each axis)
(i.e., the one used in [4]) ?
We would like to reassure the reviewer that we were very
careful when combining results from different datasets (both
here and in other parts of the model) to ensure like for like
comparisons. We have made this explicit in this case:
“Note that anatomical landmarks were used to combine the above data sets in
order to ensure their compatibility.”
- P19 L302-304 - Please give the method followed to obtain EMG envelopes (filtering, RMS, ...). Indeed, the
method can highly influence the results.
Apologies, we must have given the impression that we
calculated the envelopes from the EMG data reported by
Rodacki and colleagues. In fact, Rodacki et al. reported these
envelopes, and we have simply taken them from their work.
We have clarified this in the text, and also added some detail
from Rodacki’s work as to how these were generated:
“The performance of each case was evaluated by comparing the predicted muscle
forces to EMG envelopes representing the muscular activations during vertical
jumping. These envelopes were taken from the work of Rodacki and colleagues [32]
(Rodacki et al. generated these envelopes from the raw electromyograms by using
the MYO-DAT 5.0 EMG analysis software (MIE Medical Research Ltd., Leeds, UK)
with a second-order low pass filter of 6 Hz).”
Results
---------------------------------------------------
/
Discussion
---------------------------------------------------
- P21 L339 - Consider changing “EMG values” for “EMG envelopes” (also L341, L345 and P22 L352)
Changed accordingly.
- P21 L341-344 - Please discuss the possible reasons making the estimations of hamstrings and gastrocnemii
forces, both biarticular muscle groups, worse than for the other muscles.
We have added the following discussion:
“It is notable that the estimated biarticular muscle forces (biarticular hamstrings
and gastrocnemius) showed a lower level of agreement than the monoarticular
muscle force estimates. This was predominantly due to a later onset of muscular
activation in the estimated muscle forces than was seen in the EMG envelopes. We
have previously identified that modelling the function of the biarticular muscles is a
key challenge for the musculoskeletal modelling community [9,10]. In particular,
the benefits derived from the biarticular muscles transferring power between joints
[37] may not be entirely captured by this modelling approach.”
Tables & Figures
---------------------------------------------------
- Figure 3 - Consider changing “EMG activation” for “EMG envelopes”
Changed accordingly:
“The shaded grey regions represent EMG envelopes that have been reported
previously in the literature”
- Table 1 - Consider changing “calf segment” for “shank segmen” as used in the text.
Changed accordingly.
References
1. Moissenet, F., Chèze, L. & Dumas, R. 2014 A 3D lower limb musculoskeletal
model for simultaneous estimation of musculo-tendon, joint contact, ligament
and bone forces during gait. J. Biomech. 47, 50–58.
(doi:10.1016/j.jbiomech.2013.10.015)
2. Modenese, L., Phillips, A. T. M. & Bull, A. M. J. 2011 An open source lower limb
model: Hip joint validation. J. Biomech. 44, 2185–2193.
(doi:16/j.jbiomech.2011.06.019)
Appendix C
Response to Reviewers
Thank you for all your work in reviewing this manuscript.
We have uploaded the source code for the model as requested. We have made the
availability of the model as ESM clear by adding the following text to the manuscript
(within the main body and the data accessibility section):
"In addition, the source code for the model and the MATLAB® application are
provided with this article as electronic supplementary material."
Society Open
