Phylogeny of Anophelinae using mitochondrial protein
coding genes
Peter G. Foster, Tatiane Marques Porangaba de Oliveira, Eduardo S. Bergo, Jan E. Conn,
Denise Cristina Sant’Ana, Sandra Sayuri Nagaki, Silvio Nihei, Carlos Einicker Lamas,
Christian González, Caio Cesar Moreira and Maria Anice Mureb Sallum
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170758.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170758
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170758.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Richard Wilkerson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Reviewer: Richard Wilkerson, Research Associate, National Museum of Natural History,
Smithsonian Institution, USA (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Foster et al. present a really strong contribution to our understanding of relationships and the
classification of one of the most significant insect genera, the malaria transmitting Anopheles.
Overall the study was well conducted and the paper well written. I have just a few questions
regarding technical aspects of the phylogenetic study which shouldn't be hard to resolve.
1) Amino-acid datasets. Amino-acids vs DNA for mt genome phylogenies in insects is a topic
which just won't neatly resolve itself - the discussion which you provide between lines 386 and
398 reflect this. Different studies have resulted in different outcomes from the two types of
coding - but they also reflect very different taxonomic scales and thus node ages. Paper 23
concerning termite families resolves younger nodes than those in Paper 65 (Paraneoptera
orders/subroders) or 66 (Insect Orders) - and there is the associated question of topological
accuracy vs nodal support. Amino acids definitely reduce nodal support statistics by simple
virtue of being 1/3 the size of DNA datasets - but you DNA can give you well-supported,
incorrect topologies. For this reason most authors tend to have tried to evaluate topology and
support between the two in parallel - by doing replicate analyses with both data sets. I would
strongly suggest that you attempt the same here - the Anophelinae are at a fairly low taxonomic
level (but probably still fairly old) and I would anticipate there being resolving power in the
DNA dataset. Saturation can be ameliorated by parallel datasets including vs excluding 3rd
3
codon positions, the principle source of phylogenetic error which amino acids remove. I'd be
surprised if it radically rewrote the conclusions of your paper but I think it would add significant
detail to the phylogenetic results.
2) Why don't you include a fell taxon tree instead relegating them to the supplementary figures
(Fig 4 vs S2-S7)? I know that you are focused at the genus/subgenus monophyly question, but a
full tree would be useful for a broader readership. In an opposite vein I can't really see the point
of Fig 3 - a four-taxon statement easily described in the text.
3) Outgroup relationships (lines 284-287) - not a core topic but you don't reference a paper for the
'previously proposed relationships' for which these family-level relationships don't agree.
Presumably Weigmann et al. 2011 (PNAS) as the most comprehensive recent treatment of fly
relationships? It is worth noting that other mt genome phylogenies also don't recover those
relationships (e.g. Zhang et al. 2016 PLoS One 11: e0158167). Mt genomes for nematocera family-
level clades aren't the same as nuclear-only/nuclear-heavy phylogenetic datasets.
4. Heterogeneity testing. First off please provide a reference for the software used to perform the
X2 test (DAMBE maybe? Seems to be popular for this sort of thing, but whatever you used).
Secondly, this is presumably why you didn't do any DNA analyses at all? Recent work by
Duchene et al. (2017 Mol Biol Evol 34: 1529-1534) has shown that most of the widely used tests for
compositional heterogeneity are overly aggressive with respect to its affect on phylogenetic
accuracy - a dataset will be flagged as significantly heterogeneous and yet it have no effect on
accuracy. Hence, in part, my recommendation above to simply run some DNA analyses and see
how different they are from the Amino acid ones. You could also flesh out this section a bit by
revealing what is lost by going to AA-only e.g. by presenting the respective numbers of
phylogenetically informative sites in the DNA and AA datasets. My gut feeling, and experience
from running similar types of parallel analyses, is that a lot of variation goes out when you go to
AA-only, so it would be more transparent to record that.
5. Partitioning & Model Choice. Did you perform any partitioning of the dataset during analysis.
Model choice seems to have been dealt with by parallel analysis if tables 3, 4 and 5 are to go by.
Several of the methods used allow partitioning (RAxML, PhyloBayes, I don't know about the rest)
and so should be run through a partition predictor like PartitionFinder (Lanfear 2016). Similarly,
I would be interested to see how a priori model prediction compares to the arbitrary use of
different ones (harder as the main prediction software doesn't accommodate models like CAT as
they aren't hierarchially related to the GTR family) but certainly worth exploring.
While these suggestions involve a fair amount of computer run time, I don't think that they will
actually take all that much to implement and then we have much more assurance that the tree
presented aren't the result of the analyses choices, but rather reflective of the true mt genomic
history of these mosquitoes.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170758)
31-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Foster
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170758 entitled
"Phylogeny of Anophelinae using mitochondrial protein coding genes" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170758
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
5
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-Aug-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
Both reviewers agree that this is a fine paper worthy of publication after only minor revisions,
which will make the paper even stronger.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Reviewer: Richard Wilkerson, Research Associate, National Museum of Natural History,
Smithsonian Institution, USA
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Foster et al. present a really strong contribution to our understanding of relationships and the
classification of one of the most significant insect genera, the malaria transmitting Anopheles.
Overall the study was well conducted and the paper well written. I have just a few questions
regarding technical aspects of the phylogenetic study which shouldn't be hard to resolve.
1) Amino-acid datasets. Amino-acids vs DNA for mt genome phylogenies in insects is a topic
which just won't neatly resolve itself - the discussion which you provide between lines 386 and
398 reflect this. Different studies have resulted in different outcomes from the two types of
coding - but they also reflect very different taxonomic scales and thus node ages. Paper 23
concerning termite families resolves younger nodes than those in Paper 65 (Paraneoptera
orders/subroders) or 66 (Insect Orders) - and there is the associated question of topological
accuracy vs nodal support. Amino acids definitely reduce nodal support statistics by simple
virtue of being 1/3 the size of DNA datasets - but you DNA can give you well-supported,
incorrect topologies. For this reason most authors tend to have tried to evaluate topology and
support between the two in parallel - by doing replicate analyses with both data sets. I would
strongly suggest that you attempt the same here - the Anophelinae are at a fairly low taxonomic
level (but probably still fairly old) and I would anticipate there being resolving power in the
DNA dataset. Saturation can be ameliorated by parallel datasets including vs excluding 3rd
codon positions, the principle source of phylogenetic error which amino acids remove. I'd be
surprised if it radically rewrote the conclusions of your paper but I think it would add significant
detail to the phylogenetic results.
2) Why don't you include a fell taxon tree instead relegating them to the supplementary figures
(Fig 4 vs S2-S7)? I know that you are focused at the genus/subgenus monophyly question, but a
full tree would be useful for a broader readership. In an opposite vein I can't really see the point
of Fig 3 - a four-taxon statement easily described in the text.
3) Outgroup relationships (lines 284-287) - not a core topic but you don't reference a paper for the
'previously proposed relationships' for which these family-level relationships don't agree.
Presumably Weigmann et al. 2011 (PNAS) as the most comprehensive recent treatment of fly
relationships? It is worth noting that other mt genome phylogenies also don't recover those
relationships (e.g. Zhang et al. 2016 PLoS One 11: e0158167). Mt genomes for nematocera family-
level clades aren't the same as nuclear-only/nuclear-heavy phylogenetic datasets.
4. Heterogeneity testing. First off please provide a reference for the software used to perform the
X2 test (DAMBE maybe? Seems to be popular for this sort of thing, but whatever you used).
Secondly, this is presumably why you didn't do any DNA analyses at all? Recent work by
7
Duchene et al. (2017 Mol Biol Evol 34: 1529-1534) has shown that most of the widely used tests for
compositional heterogeneity are overly aggressive with respect to its affect on phylogenetic
accuracy - a dataset will be flagged as significantly heterogeneous and yet it have no effect on
accuracy. Hence, in part, my recommendation above to simply run some DNA analyses and see
how different they are from the Amino acid ones. You could also flesh out this section a bit by
revealing what is lost by going to AA-only e.g. by presenting the respective numbers of
phylogenetically informative sites in the DNA and AA datasets. My gut feeling, and experience
from running similar types of parallel analyses, is that a lot of variation goes out when you go to
AA-only, so it would be more transparent to record that.
5. Partitioning & Model Choice. Did you perform any partitioning of the dataset during analysis.
Model choice seems to have been dealt with by parallel analysis if tables 3, 4 and 5 are to go by.
Several of the methods used allow partitioning (RAxML, PhyloBayes, I don't know about the rest)
and so should be run through a partition predictor like PartitionFinder (Lanfear 2016). Similarly,
I would be interested to see how a priori model prediction compares to the arbitrary use of
different ones (harder as the main prediction software doesn't accommodate models like CAT as
they aren't hierarchially related to the GTR family) but certainly worth exploring.
While these suggestions involve a fair amount of computer run time, I don't think that they will
actually take all that much to implement and then we have much more assurance that the tree
presented aren't the result of the analyses choices, but rather reflective of the true mt genomic
history of these mosquitoes.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170758)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170758.R1)
04-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Foster,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Phylogeny of Anophelinae using
mitochondrial protein coding genes" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
8
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Review of Phylogeny of Anophelinae using mitochondrial protein coding genes
The authors are to be congratulated on an excellent treatment of anopheline
phylogenetics. I very much like using protein analysis, very robust. I’m sure a larger
taxon sample will come in future so that Cellia and Old World Anopheles (Anopheles)
are represented, and nuclear DNA included to corroborate mtDNA results.
I only mark this paper for any revision at all (minor) because I strongly believe that
further justification is needed for changing the ranks of these well-known
subgenera.
The authors cite Vences et al. (2013): “Biological classification of supraspecific taxa
should be strictly based on the monophyly of taxa and all major lineages in a
phylogenetic tree need to be named.” This is an immutable Hennigian principle that
states classifications must follow our best understanding of monophyletic groups.
In practical terms, however, the limited number of ranks in the Linnean system
prohibit formal naming of every tree branch. But, informal names can be used as
well, as long as it’s clear what the (monophyletic) relationships are.
Vences et al. is misrepresented (or very much underpresented) in that they
discussed many other considerations for naming (an expansion of ideas developed
first by Wiley and others; see below). In addition to Monophyly, Vences et al. used
other “taxon naming criteria” (TNCs- not all apply to this discussion, it is an in depth
look at many issues of naming), which include: Clade Stability, Phenotypic
Diagnosability, Manageability, Hall of Fame, Nomenclatural Stability and Community
Consensus.
The bottom line is, where communication is very important, especially given
medically, or environmentally important organisms, to preserve stability, there is
more than one way to express relationships in a classification, and care should be
given how it is done.
I’m puzzled that the authors did not cite a very similar case recently addressed by
me and colleagues for the mosquito tribe Aedini (Wilkerson et al., 2015). We
explained in detail the naming issues for medically important Aedes mosquitoes, and
some of the same issues apply for genus Anopheles.
In contrast to Aedini a number of the above TNCs are met in Anophelinae (e.g.
Diagnosability). Some probably apply to Anophelinae though; for instance, I can see
clade changes as a future probability. But more important, is a consideration of
acceptance by the larger community of malaria (and other) researchers. Genus
Anopheles is in the common vernacular and nearly everyone understands what
genus Anopheles means. Splitting it will cause (perhaps temporarily, we don’t know)
confusion, and most probably the newly elevated genera won’t be recognized by
most outside of the Neotropics (at least short term, a guess on my part). Also, for
instance, it is easy to imagine computer literature searches for Anopheles missing
the newly elevated genera.
Vences et al. stated up front that their TNCs are not mandatory and can be ignored.
This is understood. But before changing how we communicate about a very
important group of mosquitoes I think consideration and a rationale should be given
about the effects of the changes and if they really need to be made. I.e. how is it
better for communication having a genus Nyssorhynchus? Will a closer look in
future at An. (Anopheles) and An. (Cellia) bring new revelations and a rationale to
create more genera? Is there an alternative to changing the ranks of these taxa?
A “proposed” classification scheme, to me, would be a more conservative approach.
This along with a full discussion of the issues articulated in Vences et al. (2013) and
by Wiley.
In the end, I’ll go along with whatever is decided as long as thoughtful discussion is
presented. If it were me though, I’d find some alternative that didn’t “formally”
change the ranks.
Vences M, Guayasamin JM, Miralles A, de la Riva I. To name or not to name: Criteria
to promote economy of change in Linnaean classification schemes. Zootaxa.
2013;3636:201-44.
Wiley EO (1979) An annotated Linnaean hierarchy, with comments on natural taxa
and competing systems. Syst Zool 28: 308–337.
Wiley EO (1981) Phylogenetics. The Theory of Phylogenetic Systematics. New York:
Wiley-Interscience. 439 p.
Wiley EO, Liebermann BS (2011) Phylogenetic Systematics. Theory and Practice of
Phylogenetic Systematics. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley-Blackwell.
Wilkerson, R., Linton, Y.-M., Fonseca, D., Schultz, T., Price, D., & Strickman, D. (2015).
Making mosquito taxonomy useful: A stable classification of tribe Aedini that
balances utility with current knowledge of evolutionary relationships. PLoS ONE,
10(7)
Appendix B
Authors’ response to Foster et al “Phylogeny of
Anophelinae using mitochondrial protein coding
genes”
September 28, 2017
Contents
1. Point-by-point response to the reviewers.
2. The revised manuscript showing differences from the previous version
3. The revised manuscript
1
Authors’ response
September 26, 2017
ly to Reviewer 1, Richard Wilkerson changes as a future probability. But more important, is
a consideration of acceptance by the larger community of
ew of Phylogeny of Anophelinae using mitochondrial malaria (and other) researchers. Genus Anopheles is in the
in coding genes common vernacular and nearly everyone understands what
e authors are to be congratulated on an excellent genus Anopheles means. Splitting it will cause (perhaps
ment of anopheline phylogenetics. I very much like temporarily, we don’t know) confusion, and most proba-
protein analysis, very robust. I’m sure a larger taxon bly the newly elevated genera won’t be recognized by most
le will come in future so that Cellia and Old World outside of the Neotropics (at least short term, a guess on
heles (Anopheles) are represented, and nuclear DNA my part). Also, for instance, it is easy to imagine com-
ded to corroborate mtDNA results. puter literature searches for Anopheles missing the newly
ank-you for your kind comments. We do think that elevated genera.
rotein analysis was more robust than the DNA anal- Vences et al. stated up front that their TNCs are not
at this phylogenetic depth. We will be looking more mandatory and can be ignored. This is understood. But
ully at Nyssorhynchus in future, where DNA analysis before changing how we communicate about a very im-
be appropriate. portant group of mosquitoes I think consideration and a
nly mark this paper for any revision at all (minor) be- rationale should be given about the effects of the changes
e I strongly believe that further justification is needed and if they really need to be made. I.e. how is it better
hanging the ranks of these well-known subgenera. for communication having a genus Nyssorhynchus? Will a
e authors cite Vences et al. (2013): “Biological clas- closer look in future at An. (Anopheles) and An. (Cellia)
tion of supraspecific taxa should be strictly based on bring new revelations and a rationale to create more gen-
onophyly of taxa and all major lineages in a phyloge- era? Is there an alternative to changing the ranks of these
tree need to be named.” This is an immutable Hen- taxa?
n principle that states classifications must follow our A “proposed” classification scheme, to me, would be a
understanding of monophyletic groups. In practical more conservative approach. This along with a full discus-
s, however, the limited number of ranks in the Lin- sion of the issues articulated in Vences et al. (2013) and
system prohibit formal naming of every tree branch. by Wiley.
informal names can be used as well, as long as it’s In the end, I’ll go along with whatever is decided as long
what the (monophyletic) relationships are. as thoughtful discussion is presented. If it were me though,
nces et al. is misrepresented (or very much underpre- I’d find some alternative that didn’t “formally” change the
d) in that they discussed many other considerations ranks.
aming (an expansion of ideas developed first by Wiley We have taken your reservations and your request for fur-
others; see below). In addition to Monophyly, Vences ther justification to heart, and have greatly expanded our
. used other “taxon naming criteria” (TNCs- not all reasons for our proposed changes. We discuss the proposed
y to this discussion, it is an in depth look at many changes in terms of Vences’ TNCs, and contrast them with
s of naming), which include: Clade Stability, Pheno- your Aedini story. We leave the subgenera An. Anopheles
Diagnosability, Manageability, Hall of Fame, Nomen- and An. Cellia where they are.
ral Stability and Community Consensus.
e bottom line is, where communication is very impor- Reply to anonymous reviewer 2
especially given medically, or environmentally impor-
organisms, to preserve stability, there is more than Comments to the Author(s): Foster et al. present a really
way to express relationships in a classification, and strong contribution to our understanding of relationships
should be given how it is done. and the classification of one of the most significant insect
puzzled that the authors did not cite a very simi- genera, the malaria transmitting Anopheles. Overall the
ase recently addressed by me and colleagues for the study was well conducted and the paper well written. I
uito tribe Aedini (Wilkerson et al., 2015). We ex- have just a few questions regarding technical aspects of
ed in detail the naming issues for medically important the phylogenetic study which shouldn’t be hard to resolve.
s mosquitoes, and some of the same issues apply for Thank-you for your kind comments, and the following
s Anopheles. suggestions.
contrast to Aedini a number of the above TNCs are 1) Amino-acid datasets. Amino-acids vs DNA for mt
in Anophelinae (e.g. Diagnosability). Some probably genome phylogenies in insects is a topic which just won’t
y to Anophelinae though; for instance, I can see clade neatly resolve itself - the discussion which you provide be-
tween lines 386 and 398 reflect this. Different studies have didn’t do any DNA analyses at all? Recent work by Duch-
resulted in different outcomes from the two types of cod- ene et al. (2017 Mol Biol Evol 34: 1529-1534) has shown
ing - but they also reflect very different taxonomic scales that most of the widely used tests for compositional het-
and thus node ages. Paper 23 concerning termite fami- erogeneity are overly aggressive with respect to its affect on
lies resolves younger nodes than those in Paper 65 (Para- phylogenetic accuracy - a dataset will be flagged as signifi-
neoptera orders/subroders) or 66 (Insect Orders) - and cantly heterogeneous and yet it have no effect on accuracy.
there is the associated question of topological accuracy vs Hence, in part, my recommendation above to simply run
nodal support. Amino acids definitely reduce nodal sup- some DNA analyses and see how different they are from
port statistics by simple virtue of being 1/3 the size of DNA the Amino acid ones. You could also flesh out this section
datasets - but you DNA can give you well-supported, in- a bit by revealing what is lost by going to AA-only e.g.
correct topologies. For this reason most authors tend to by presenting the respective numbers of phylogenetically
have tried to evaluate topology and support between the informative sites in the DNA and AA datasets. My gut
two in parallel - by doing replicate analyses with both data feeling, and experience from running similar types of par-
sets. I would strongly suggest that you attempt the same allel analyses, is that a lot of variation goes out when you
here - the Anophelinae are at a fairly low taxonomic level go to AA-only, so it would be more transparent to record
(but probably still fairly old) and I would anticipate there that.
being resolving power in the DNA dataset. Saturation can A reference to p4 was added for the <U+03C7>2 testing. I am
be ameliorated by parallel datasets including vs excluding familiar with the Duchene et al paper, and I think it sim-
3rd codon positions, the principle source of phylogenetic plistic in that it missed the point that what matters most
error which amino acids remove. I’d be surprised if it rad- is how the compositional heterogeneity is arranged on the
ically rewrote the conclusions of your paper but I think it tree.
would add significant detail to the phylogenetic results. Thank-you for the suggestion of adding parsimony infor-
We chose to use analyses based on AA sequences mainly mative sites counts; I have done this. I think that Figure
because the DNA sequences were quite compositionally 2 also shows that there is quite enough sequence variation
heterogeneous, and the AA sequences were not as heteroge- in the amino acid sequences for our purposes.
neous. At the reviewer’s suggestion I repeated some analy- 5. Partitioning & Model Choice. Did you perform any
ses on the corresponding DNA, both using all three codon partitioning of the dataset during analysis. Model choice
positions and using only first and second codon positions. seems to have been dealt with by parallel analysis if tables
For the most part I got the same results as I did using the 3, 4 and 5 are to go by. Several of the methods used allow
AA sequences. However, there were contentious splits that partitioning (RAxML, PhyloBayes, I don’t know about the
were method and dataset dependent. One such difficult rest) and so should be run through a partition predictor
split was Bironella and Chagasia vs all other Anophelinae, like PartitionFinder (Lanfear 2016). Similarly, I would be
and the better DNA analyses had support of less than 50% interested to see how a priori model prediction compares
for that split. to the arbitrary use of different ones (harder as the main
2) Why don’t you include a fell taxon tree instead rele- prediction software doesn’t accommodate models like CAT
gating them to the supplementary figures (Fig 4 vs S2-S7)? as they aren’t hierarchially related to the GTR family) but
I know that you are focused at the genus/subgenus mono- certainly worth exploring.
phyly question, but a full tree would be useful for a broader As the main analysis method was the CAT model in
readership. In an opposite vein I can’t really see the point PhyloBayes, we did not partition the amino acid align-
of Fig 3 - a four-taxon statement easily described in the ments. The partition version of PhyloBayes was well hid-
text. den, as it is a separate branch in the git repository and
Thank you for the suggestions. We removed Figure 3, is not mentioned in the documentation (PhyloBayes MPI,
and moved Figure S27 into the main body. version 1.7, https://github.com/bayesiancook/pbmpi); I
3) Outgroup relationships (lines 284-287) - not a core only discovered it a few days ago. For the DNA-based
topic but you don’t reference a paper for the ’previously ML analysis I used ModelFinder in IQ-Tree, which uses a
proposed relationships’ for which these family-level re- PartitionFinder-like strategy for partitioning, with excel-
lationships don’t agree. Presumably Weigmann et al. lent models and model choice strategy. In spite of this,
2011 (PNAS) as the most comprehensive recent treatment however, the arrangement of the groups in the DNA-based
of fly relationships? It is worth noting that other mt analyses were inconsistent with each other and with the
genome phylogenies also don’t recover those relationships translation-based trees. I suspect the DNA is too “noisy”
(e.g. Zhang et al. 2016 PLoS One 11: e0158167). Mt and prone to bias, and while there is less information in
genomes for nematocera family-level clades aren’t the same the translations, it is better quality information.
as nuclear-only/nuclear-heavy phylogenetic datasets. While these suggestions involve a fair amount of com-
We agree that the outgroup arrangement is not a core puter run time, I don’t think that they will actually take
topic. Furthermore, as you point out, it is complex and all that much to implement and then we have much more
unsettled, and on reflection we thought that we could not assurance that the tree presented aren’t the result of the
do the topic sufficient justice, and deleted the contentious analyses choices, but rather reflective of the true mt ge-
sentence. nomic history of these mosquitoes.
4. Heterogeneity testing. First off please provide a refer- It is true that a fair amount of computer time was needed
ence for the software used to perform the X2 test (DAMBE to accommodate these suggestions (about two years of
maybe? Seems to be popular for this sort of thing, but CPU time), but I hope that the results are more convincing
whatever you used). Secondly, this is presumably why you for that.
2
Phylogeny of Anophelinae using
mitochondrial protein coding genes
Peter G. Foster1 , Tatiane Marques Porangaba de Oliveira2 , Eduardo S. Bergo3 , Jan E. Conn4 ,
Denise Cristina Sant’Ana2 , Sandra Sayuri Nakagi2 , Silvio Nihei5 , Carlos Einicker Lamas6 , Chris-
tian González7 , Caio Cesar Moreira2 , and Maria Anice Mureb Sallum2
1
Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum, London, United Kingdom
2
Departamento de Epidemiologia, Faculdade de Saude Publica, Universidade de São Paulo, CEP
01246-904 São Paulo, SP, Brazil
3
Superintendencia de Controle de Endemias, Secretaria de Estado da Saude de São Paulo, SP,
Brazil
4
Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York, USA; Depart-
ment of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health, State University of New York-Albany,
Albany, NY, USA
5
Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, CEP 05508-900, São Paulo, SP, Brazil
6
Museu de Zoologia, Universidade de São Paulo, CEP 04263-000, São Paulo, SP, Brazil
7
Instituto de Entomología, Universidad Metropolitana de Ciencias de la Educación, Santiago,
Chile
Subject Areas: taxonomy and systematics
Keywords: Anopheles, mitochondrial genomes, phylogenetics
Author for correspondence: Peter G. Foster, email:p.foster@nhm.ac.uk
Abstract
Malaria is a vector-borne disease that is a great burden on the poorest and most marginalized
communities of the tropical and subtropical world. Approximately 41 species of Anopheline
mosquitoes can effectively spread species of Plasmodium parasites that cause human malaria.
Proposing a natural classification for the subfamily Anophelinae has been a continuous effort,
addressed using both morphology and DNA sequence data. The monophyly of the genus Anophe-
les, and phylogenetic placement of the genus Bironella, subgenera Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia,
and Stethomyia within the subfamily Anophelinae, remain in question. To understand the clas-
sification of Anophelinae we inferred the phylogeny of all three genera (Anopheles, Bironella,
Chagasia) and major subgenera by analyzing the amino acid sequences of the 13 protein coding
genes of 150 newly-sequenced mitochondrial genomes of Anophelinae and 18 newly-sequenced
Culex species as outgroup taxa, supplemented with 23 mitogenomes from GenBank.
Our analyses generally place genus Bironella within the genus Anopheles, which implies that
the latter as it is currently defined is not monophyletic. With some inconsistencies, Bironella
38 was placed within the major clade that includes Anopheles, Cellia, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia,
39 Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia, which were found to be monophyletic groups within Anopheli-
40 nae. Our findings provided robust evidence for elevating the monophyletic groupings Kerteszia,
41 Lophopodomyia, Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia to genus level; genus Anopheles to include sub-
42 genera Anopheles, Baimaia, Cellia and Christya; Anopheles parvus to be placed into a new
43 genus; Nyssorhynchus to be elevated to genus level; the genus Nyssorhynchus to include sub-
44 genera Myzorhynchella and Nyssorhynchus; Anopheles atacamensis and Anopheles pictipennis
45 to be transferred from subgenus Nyssorhynchus to subgenus Myzorhynchella; and subgenus Nys-
46 sorhynchus to encompass the remaining species of Argyritarsis and Albimanus Sections.
47 Introduction
48 Malaria transmission is endemic in 99 countries and territories of tropical and subtropical areas
49 of the world. Globally, approximately 3 billion people are at risk of becoming infected with
50 Plasmodium parasites. The risk is variable, with some regions at high risk, whereas other areas
51 are progressing towards elimination of malaria, or have succeeded in eliminating it [1, 2]. In
52 2013, about 198 million cases of malaria occurred worldwide (estimates ranged from 124 to
53 283 million), with approximately 584,000 deaths (estimates ranged from 367,000 to 755,000),
54 accounting for 78% of all deaths in children aged under 5 years. Even considering the uncertainties
55 in the latest estimates of cases and deaths, malaria is a huge burden on the poorest and most
56 marginalized communities living in endemic countries [3]. In the Americas there were 389,390
57 malaria cases in 2014. Brazil accounted for 36.8% of these, followed by the Bolivarian Republic
58 of Venezuela with 23.3%, and Peru with 16.6%. These three countries together accounted for
59 76.7% of malaria cases in 2014, however, the highest annual parasite index (API) per 1,000
60 thousand people was registered in Suriname (17.4), Guyana (16.5), and Venezuela (15.3) [4]. In
61 2015, Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela accounted for 30%, Brazil 24%, Peru 19%, and Colombia
62 (10%) of estimated malaria cases [3]. The numbers of cases have increased because of economic
63 conditions, mining activities, and decreased vector control strategies. For instance, Venezuela
64 reported more cases in 2014 than in any year in the previous 50 years [4].
65 Approximately 41 species of the genus Anopheles (subfamily Anophelinae) can effectively trans-
66 mit six species of the genus Plasmodium, P. falciparum (Welch), P. vivax Grassi & Feletti, P.
67 malariae Feletti & Grassi, P. ovale curtisi Sutherland et al., P. ovale wallikeri Sutherland et al.
68 and P. knowlesi Sinton and Mulligan, from an infected to a susceptible person [5]. Anopheles
69 mosquitoes also transmit the filarial parasite Wuchereria bancrofti Cobbold, and Brugia malayi
70 Brug, as well as various arboviruses, to humans [6].
71 Mosquitoes belong to Culicidae, a nematocerous family of Diptera. They are subdivided into
72 two subfamilies, Culicinae and Anophelinae. Culicinae is distributed worldwide and has 3, 067
73 species in 38 genera, including Aedes and Culex. Anophelinae has a cosmopolitan distribution
74 with 485 formally recognized species and several unnamed members of species complexes that
75 have not been formally described (WRBU 2016, http://wrbu.org/VecID_MQ.html). The cur-
76 rent scheme of classification of the Anophelinae subdivides it into three genera, Anopheles (472
77 species in addition to several unnamed members of species complexes, cosmopolitan), Bironella
78 (8 species, Australasian), and Chagasia (5 species, Neotropical).
79 The genus Anopheles has eight subgenera and various informal groups as sections, series,
80 groups, and subgroups (Table 1), which were defined based on morphological traits of adults,
81 fourth-instar larva, and pupa [7, 8]. Most of the sections, series, groups, and subgroups are
82 based on non-monophyletic groups [see figures 4–6 in 8]. The genus Bironella is subdivided
83 into three subgenera, Bironella, Brugella and Neobironella [9], and Chagasia has no subgeneric
2
classification [10].
Despite several efforts, a stable classification for the subfamily Anophelinae remains elusive.
For example, relationships among the genera Anopheles, Bironella, and Chagasia were addressed
using both morphological traits [8, 11, 12] and DNA sequence data [13, 14]. However, both mor-
phology and molecular data failed to yield a unified consensus of the relationships among these
genera. Relationships remain unresolved with contradictory hypotheses regarding the mono-
phyly of the genus Anopheles and the placement of Bironella within the subfamily [8, 13–15].
The genus Bironella was found either within the genus Anopheles as the sister group of the
subgenus Stethomyia [11] or outside the genus Anopheles [14]. Recently, Harbach and Kitching
[8] found Bironella clustered with species of Anopheles, without considering the possibility of
the former being a subgenus of the latter. Both morphology [8, 11] and DNA sequences [13, 14]
confirmed Chagasia to be a sister group to the clade composed of Anopheles and Bironella within
Anophelinae. In contrast, monophyly of the genus Anopheles is subject to a certain degree of
taxonomic instability. For instance, Krzywinski, Wilkerson, and Besansky [16] corroborated the
monophyly of the genus Anopheles as well as of the nominal subgenus Anopheles, using DNA
sequences of two protein-coding nuclear genes (white and G6PD), one protein-coding mitochon-
drial gene (ND5) and the D2 region of the ribosomal gene. Additionally, when the white gene
DNA sequences were analyzed separately, Bironella was the sister taxon of Anopheles. However,
Sallum, Schultz, and Wilkerson [11], Sallum et al. [13], and Collucci and Sallum [17] found the
genus Anopheles paraphyletic relative to Bironella. In addition, Harbach and Kitching [8, 12]
proposed two new subgenera (Baimaia and Christya) within Anopheles, but maintained Bironella
as a valid genus even though Bironella and the subgenera Stethomyia and Baimaia had been
placed nested within the subgenus Anopheles.
Currently, the genus Anopheles is subdivided into eight subgenera (Table 1). The subgenus
Anopheles, being cosmopolitan, has the largest geographical distribution; Cellia occurs in the
Afrotropical, Australasian and Oriental regions; Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, Stethomyia and Nys-
sorhynchus are restricted to the neotropics, with Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) albimanus reaching
southern parts of the Nearctic. Little information exists concerning the distributions of subgenera
Baimaia and Christya, proposed by Harbach and Kitching [8, 12]. The former occurs in limited
areas of Southeast Asia and was nominated to include a unique species that uses crabholes as
larval habitat [18]. The subgenus Christya occurs in the sub-Sahara [8], and includes two sylvatic
species, Anopheles implexus (Theobald) and Anopheles okuensis Brunhes, Le Goff and Geoffroy.
Phylogenetic relationships among subgenera of the genus Anopheles remain unresolved. Foley
et al. [19], Sallum, Schultz, and Wilkerson [11] and Freitas et al. [15] found some indication
that the subgenus Anopheles is paraphyletic. Collucci and Sallum [17] used 111 morphological
characters and 36 species of Anopheles (Anopheles) with 5 outgroup taxa, and showed that
Anopheles (Anopheles) was a monophyletic group and that Bironella was a sister lineage. In
addition, Krzywinski, Wilkerson, and Besansky [20], based on the results of phylogenetic analysis
of the DNA sequences of the white gene, found evidence supporting monophyly of the subgenus
Anopheles, a sister taxa relationship of subgenera Nyssorhynchus and Kerteszia, and monophyly
of a group composed of Cellia and Anopheles. Furthermore, the subgenus Lophopodomyia was
found as sister taxon to the clade formed of Nyssorhynchus and Kerteszia, whereas the subgenus
Stethomyia was placed outside the clade composed of other Anopheles subgenera. Results of a
phylogenetic analysis carried out for 12 species of Anopheles (Kerteszia) confirmed the monophyly
of the subgenus Kerteszia, and the close relationship between Nyssorhynchus and Kerteszia [21].
Foster et al. [22] looked at relationships within Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus), and noted that
recovery of known higher-level relationships benefited from more sequence data, and by ex-
trapolation proposed using complete mitochondrial genomes for such problems in future. The
mitochondrial genome is a rich source of information and has been used in several studies [23–27].
3
Table 1: Present scheme of internal classification of the subfamily Anophelinae (genus, subgenus and series), type species and number
of species in each subgenus
Number of
Genus Subgenus Section Series Type species species
Anopheles Anopheles Anopheles maculipennis Meigen 183
Angusticorn Anopheles
Cycloleppteron
Lophoscelomyia
Laticorn Arribalzagia
Myzorhynchus
Baimaia Anopheles kyondawensis Abraham 1
Cellia Anopheles pharoensis Theobald 224
Cellia
Myzomyia
Neocellia
Neomyzomyia
Paramyzomyia
Pyretophorus
Christya Anopheles implexus (Theobald) 2
Kerteszia Anopheles boliviensis (Theobald) 12
Lophopodomyia Anopheles squamifemur Antunes 6
Nyssorhynchus Anopheles argyritarsis Robineau Desvoidy 39
Albimanus Albimanus
Oswaldoi
Argyritarsis Albitarsis
Argyritarsis
Myzorhynchella
Stethomyia Anopheles nimbus Theobald 5
Bironella Bironella Bironella gracilis Theobald 2
Brugella Bironella travestita (Brug) 3
Neobironella Bironella confusa Bonne-Wepster 3
Chagasia Chagasia neivae Cruz 5
4
Analysis of complete mitochondrial genomes of Anopheles species has provided new evidence for
species complexes and a new understanding of the phylogenetic relationships among them [27–
31]. Similarly, promising results have been obtained for the classification of the Culex coronator
species complex [26]. It is remarkable that results of phylogenetic analyses, which included the
mitochondrial genomes of 12 species of the lepidopteran superfamily Noctuoidea, found robust
support for the monophyly of each noctuoid family [32]. It is appreciated that using complete
mitochondrial genomes in phylogenetics can be problematic [24], but here the authors suggest
that if gene order rearrangements, nucleotide frequency, and strand bias do not vary greatly
among taxa then mitochondrial genomes still have value.
Compositional bias in DNA sequences can distort the results of phylogenetic analysis, so
analysis using the protein sequences derived from DNA sequences of protein-coding genes are
often preferred. DNA sequences suffer from saturation more than protein sequences, partly
because there are fewer character states in DNA sequences than in protein. In addition, because
selection acts directly on protein sequences, but indirectly on DNA sequences, the proteins
evolve more slowly than DNA. Saturation and biases such as compositional heterogeneity tend
to manifest most strongly in rapidly evolving sequences, and so DNA tends to be more biased
than amino acids [33–35]. In the present study we used the protein sequences of mitochondrial
genomes.
In this study, family-level and genus-level relationships were inferred using phylogenomic anal-
yses of the amino acid sequences of the 13 protein coding genes of the 168 newly-sequenced
mitochondrial genomes of Anophelinae and Culex species, supplemented with 23 RefSeq mi-
togenomes from GenBank, in order: (1) to address the monophyly of family Culicidae, and
subfamilies Anophelinae and Culicinae; (2) to define the phylogenetic position of Bironella and
Chagasia within the subfamily; (3) to establish major monophyletic groups within Anophelinae;
(4) to verify the monophyly of the subgenera Anopheles, Cellia, Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, Nys-
sorhynchus, and Stethomyia; and (5) to test the current classification of the subfamily Anophe-
linae. In this study we provide evidence that supports an alternative hypothesis for the classifi-
cation of Anophelinae based on monophyly of inferred groups drawn from mitogenomic data.
Materials and methods
Taxon sampling
In the study, representatives of all three current genera of Anophelinae and six subgenera of
the genus Anopheles were included in the ingroup. The species sampled for this study and
the sources of specimens are listed in Supplementary Table S1; the current classification of the
species is in Table 2. Larvae and pupae were either collected from field habitats or obtained
from link-reared offspring of blood fed females collected in the field. Both larvae and pupae were
maintained in the laboratory to obtain adult males and females associated with larval and pupal
exuviae. Freshly emerged mosquitoes were quickly anesthetized with ethyl acetate, and either
kept separate in minute plastic vials in silica gel or individually frozen at -80°C. One individual
of Anopheles atacamensis was collected as an adult male in the Atacama Desert, Chile. An entire
fourth-instar larva of Bironella hollandi was employed for the study. Species identifications were
based on either adult male genitalia or fourth-instar larval morphological features. For some taxa
identification was also based on the external morphology of the eggs observed in a Jeol JSM-6460
scanning electron microscope (SEM, Jeol Ltd., Akishima, Japan) as described by Sallum et al.
[36] and Nagaki, Motta, and Sallum [37].
5
Table 2: List of species of the genus Anopheles employed in the
present study according to current classification. Mitochon-
drial genome sequences of species of the subgenus Cellia and
Anopheles quadrimaculatus were obtained from GenBank,
and the rest were newly sequenced in this study.
Subgenus Section Series Specific epithet
Anopheles Angusticorn Anopheles quadrimaculatus
eiseni geometricus
Laticorn Arribalzagia costai
near costai
fluminensis
forattinii
intermedius
minor
peryassui
Cellia Neomyzomyia cracens
farauti 4
hinesorum
Pyretophorus gambiae
Kerteszia cruzii
bellator
homunculus
leneanus
Lophopodomyia gilesi
pseudotibiamaculatus
Nyssorhynchus Albimanus Oswaldoi evansae
noroestensis a
galvaoi
konderi A
konderi B
konderi C
oswaldoi
oswaldoi A
oswaldoi SPForm
rangeli
dunhami
goeldii
nuneztovari A
albertoi
arthuri
arthuri B
arthuri C
arthuri D
rondoni
strodei
striatus
benarrochi
triannulatus
Argyritarsis Albitarsis albitarsis
albitarsis H
deaneorum
marajoara
oryzalimnetes
braziliensis
near braziliensis
Argyritarsis argyritarsis
sawyeri
darlingi
paulistensis b
lanei
atacamensis
Myzorhynchella antunesi
guarani
lutzii
lutzii A
lutzii B
parvus
pristinus
Stethomyia kompi
nimbus
a
Anopheles noroestensis is currently in synonymy with Anopheles evansae.
Specimens employed in the current study are from the type locality.
b
Anopheles paulistensis is currently in synonymy with Anopheles darlingi.
6 Specimens employed in the current study are from the type locality.
Genomic DNA isolation
DNA was extracted from each specimen individually following the animal tissue DNA extraction
protocol provided by the QIAgen DNeasy® Blood and Tissue Kit (QIAgen Ltd, Crawley, UK).
DNA was eluted to a volume of 200 L with Buffer AE (10 mM Tris·Cl; 0.5 mM EDTA; pH
9.0) and stored at -80°C as part of the frozen entomological collection of the Faculdade de
Saúde Pública, Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil. Genomic DNA extracts were used for PCR
amplifications.
PCR amplification and sequencing
Mitochondrial genomes of Anophelinae and Culex species were amplified either in a single
long-range PCR or 2 overlapping long PCR fragments using GoTaq® Long PCR Master Mix
(Promega, Wisconsin, USA). The PCR primers employed were conserved either across all arthro-
pods or designed from Anopheles sequences (Table S3). The remaining portions of the mitochon-
drial genome were amplified with several primers designed for specific regions based on alignments
of newly sequenced Anopheles DNA sequences and used for internal PCRs (Table S3). The posi-
tion of the primers in the mitochondrial genome is in Figure 1. The primer pairs HPK16Saa and
HPK16Sbb were employed to amplify approximately 15,300 base pairs (bp), whereas the primer
pairs LCO1490-16Sa amplified approximately 12,000 bp and HCO2198-16Sb approximately 4,800
bp. Because PCR success varied between specimens, the amplification strategy varied according
to species and specimen; for details of full amplification strategy, primers employed for varied
PCRs, and thermal cycling conditions see Table S4.
The long-range PCR amplicons were purified using DNA Clean & ConcentradorT M (Zymo
Research, California, USA) and quantified using the Qubit 2.0 fluorometer (LifeTechnologies,
Oregon, USA). Certain regions of the mitochondrial genome were amplified by PCR using Plat-
inum® Taq DNA polymerase (Invitrogen, California, USA), and a series of primers designed for
specific portions of the genome (Table S3). The PCR amplicons were purified by PEG precipi-
tation (20% polyethylene glycol 8000/2.5 M NaCl).
Nextera DNA sample preparation and Illumina sequencing
Next-Generation Sequencing and Sanger sequencing were employed to obtain DNA sequences
from 168 individuals of both Anophelinae and Culex species (Table S4). Long PCR products
were employed to obtain barcode libraries using Nextera® XT DNA Sample Preparation Kit,
Illumina, Illinois, USA, and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform with paired-end 250 base
pairs chemistry.
Sanger DNA sequencing
For some specimens, it was problematic to obtain the entire mitochondrial DNA using Illumina
sequencing technology only. Consequently, we obtained small fragments of certain portions
of the mitochondrial genome to complete the circular DNA molecule. In these situations, we
amplified the target DNA using primers that were developed for specific regions (Table S5).
PCR products were electrophoresed in 1.0% TBE agarose gels stained with GelRed Nucleic Acid
Gel Stain (Biotium Inc., Hayward, USA). Sanger sequencing reactions [38] were carried out in
one direction using ABI Big Dye Terminator Kit v.3.1 (PE Applied Biosystems, Warrington,
England). Sequencing reactions were purified in Sephadex G50® columns (GE Healthcare),
analyzed on an ABI Prism 3130 - Avant Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City,
CA, USA.), and edited using Sequencher® for Windows version 5.1. Sanger DNA fragments
7
Figure 1: Scheme of amplifications performed in this study. Blue bars show amplified fragments
sequenced by Illumina technology, while remaining colors show Sanger-sequenced frag-
ments. A and B represent the two methods of amplification of the mitochondrial
genome used in this study. In both A and B, the complete mitochondrial DNA was
amplified in two steps. In A, fragments of about 15.058 kbp and about 655 bp were
amplified and sequenced. In B the fragments about 11.857 kbp and about 4.785 kbp
were amplified and sequenced in both directions using the same set of primers em-
ployed for PCR amplification. C represents the problematic regions after assembly of
the mitochondrial genome. Some samples showed low coverage in these regions (green
and orange) and then new amplifications and sequencing were carried out to complete
the genome sequence. The green region in Anopheles evansae and Anopheles eiseni
was amplified employing species specific primers F.
8
were assembled to the mitochondrial genome obtained using Illumina sequencing technology to
complete the circular molecule.
Sequence assembly and annotation
De novo assembly used MIRA v 4.9 [39] and IDBA-UD v 1.1.2 [40], aided by CAP3 [41] and
visualized using Tablet [42]. MIRA was also used for assembly by mapping against very similar
sequences, and for mapping with extension. Blastn [43] was used to identify artifactual sequence
repeats, which were excised, and for identifying overlapping ends for circularizing. Circularizing
some assemblies required bridging with Sanger sequences as mentioned above.
When the sequences had been circularized, annotation began with the MITOS website http:
//mitos.bioinf.uni-leipzig.de [44]. Sequences were then circularly permuted so that they
started with the trnI(gat) gene. Protein-coding genes were then checked with GeneWise (part of
the Wise2 package v 2.4 http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~birney/wise2) using an HMM model (HM-
MER v2, http://hmmer.org/) based on alignments of NCBI RefSeq mosquito mitochondrial
translations. Genbank format files were made using tbl2asn (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.
gov/genbank/tbl2asn2/), which were then read and manipulated using Biopython [45, http:
//biopython.org/] and p4 [46, http://p4.nhm.ac.uk]. Boundaries of all genes were further
checked by eye using alignments as a guide.
Phylogenetic analysis
The <U+03C7>2 test for compositional homogeneity used p4 [46, http://p4.nhm.ac.uk]. Alignments
were made using clustalo [47]. Alignments were masked for reliable sites using GBlocks [48]
with default settings except that parameter “Allowed Gap Positions” was set to half. Duplicate
sequences were removed before phylogenetic analysis, and restored with branch lengths of zero
for presentation. Phylogenetic analysis used Phylobayes-MPI v 1.5 [49], PAUP v4.0b10 [50],
Phyml v 20120412 [51], and RAxML v 8.1.3 [52]. , and IQ-Tree v 1.5.4 [53–56]
Results
Newly-sequenced mitogenomes, compositional heterogeneity
We sequenced 168 mosquito mitogenomes, including 148 Anopheles, 1 Bironella, 1 Chagasia,
and 18 Culex. The mitochondrial genomes of five species of Anopheles were obtained from
GenBank (Table 2). There were 64 Anopheles species, 55 of which were sequenced for the first
time. Mitochondrial genomes of four species of Anopheles (Kerteszia) from the Atlantic Forest of
Brazil have been described in Oliveira et al. [27], including Anopheles bellator, Anopheles cruzii,
Anopheles homunculus and Anopheles laneanus. Demari-Silva et al. [26] described mitochondrial
genomes of four species: Culex coronator (2 specimens), Culex usquatus (1 specimen), Culex
camposi (1 specimen) and Culex usquatissimus (2 specimens), of the Coronator Group of Culex
(Culex). Other Culex (Culex) species newly sequenced and included in the analyses as outgroup
taxa were: Culex lygrus, Culex nigripalpus, Culex chidesteri, Culex mollis, Culex declarator,
Culex bidens, Culex brami, Culex dolosus CJForm, Culex bilineatus and Culex surinamensis.
Culex pipiens pipiens (NC_015079.1), Culex quinquefasciatus (NC_014574.1), Aedes notoscriptus
(NC_025473.1), Aedes aegypti (NC_010241.1) and Aedes albopictus (NC_006817.1) have been
previously sequenced and were obtained from GenBank. All the mitochondrial genomes had 37
genes, and all were in the same order and on the same strand (Table S7). The 168 genomes
9
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14
pairwise p-distance
Figure 2: P-distances between pairs of aligned, concatenated protein sequences, length 3735
aa. Empty bars show all p-distances except between pairs of sequences from the same
species (the smallest distance in this set is 0.0005, representing 2 differences over the
sequence pair), and filled bars show distances between taxa from different genera or
subgenera (the smallest distance in this set is 0.064, representing 238 differences over
the sequence pair).
261 ranged in size from 15322 to 16052 bp, with Anopheles from 15322 to 15739, Culex from 15568
262 to 16052, Bironella 15772, and Chagasia 15717.
263 The translations of the 13 protein-coding genes of the 150 newly-sequenced mitogenomes of
264 Anophelinae were similar, and after alignment GBlocks identified only one site to be masked.
265 The translations were aligned and then concatenated to make a supermatrix of length 3735 (after
266 masking the GBlocks site), and then compared to the corresponding DNA sequences (length
267 11205). A <U+03C7>2 test for compositional homogeneity did not show significant heterogeneity in the
268 amino acid sequences (X 2 = 138.8; dof = 2831; P = 1.0) but showed substantial heterogeneity
269 in the DNA (X 2 = 539.8; dof = 447; P = 0.0017). This test suffers from a high probability
270 of type-II error, and so although a better test may show compositional heterogeneity in the
271 translations, we can be sure that the DNA sequences are compositionally heterogeneous. This
272 favours using protein sequences in subsequent phylogenetic analyses. This amino acid alignment
273 had 772 parsimony informative sites (21% of the 3735 sites), while the corresponding DNA
274 alignment had 4418 parsimony informative sites (39% of the 11205 sites). Pairwise divergences
275 between sequences in the protein alignment were examined using p-distances (Figure 2), and
276 since we were interested in relationships between genera and subgenera the protein sequences
277 were deemed sufficiently diverged for our purpose.
278 Phylogenetic analyses
279 The results shown here address questions of relationships among genera in the Anophelinae and
280 relationships among subgenera in the genus Anopheles. All phylogenetic analyses were carried
281 out using the amino acid sequences of the protein coding genes of the 168 newly-sequenced
282 mitochondrial genomes, supplemented with 23 RefSeq mitogenomes from GenBank.
283 Phylogenetic analysis of the Culicidae using protein sequences from mitogenomes available in
10
GenBank with and without the new Bironella and Chagasia mitogenome sequences showed
in both cases that the root of the Culicidae (mosquitoes) was between the two subfamilies
(Figure ??S1). The full tree is shown in Figure S1. The rooting between the two subfam-
ilies of the mosquitoes appears to be uncontradicted. We can see that when relationships
in the outgroup taxa (species of Trichoceridae, Tanyderidae, Ptychopteridae, Chironomidae,
Keroplatidae, Pachyneuridae, Anisopodidae, and Ceratopogonidae) do not agree with previously
proposed relationships it is generally with poor support. Bironella was clustered within Anophe-
les (0.73 PP; Figure S1), but with Kerteszia sister to the clade composed of Bironella and
Anopheles. The posterior probability for the branch leading to the clade composed of Kerteszia
with Bironella and Anopheles was 1.0 (Figure S1). Examination of split supports that were not
in the consensus tree shows that support for genus Anopheles (excluding Bironella and Chagasia)
is 0.26 PP.
The mosquitoes rooted by other nematocerous Diptera, including Trichoceridae, Tanyderidae,
Ptychopteridae, Chironomidae, Keroplatidae, Pachyneuridae, Anisopodidae, and Ceratopogonidae.
Genus-level relationships in Anophelinae rooted by Culicidae
The current generic classification of the Anophelinae includes Chagasia, Bironella, and Anopheles,
and so we would expect to see them as separate groups. However, although Chagasia is sister to
the other groups, Bironella is nested within Anopheles (Table 3, Figures S2 – S7).
Table 3: Summary of analyses using Culex and Aedes as outgroup. Support values for Bironella
within Anopheles vs monophyletic genus Anopheles are shown. Support for “Bironella
within Anopheles” is defined here as the best supported split that separates Bironella
and some Anopheles taxa with the outgroup.
Bironella
with within monophyletic
RefSeq Model Anopheles Anopheles Figure
+ CAT-Poisson 0.86 0.07 S2
- CAT-Poisson 0.51 0.16 S3
+ CAT60-mtart 0.94 0.0 S4
- CAT60-mtart 0.82 < 0.01 S5
+ CAT-GTR 0.8 0.07 S6
- CAT-GTR 0.45 0.29 S7
+ CAT-GTR 0.67 0.07 S8
- CAT-GTR 0.52 0.19 S9
In order to see whether long branch effects were affecting the placement of Bironella, in analyses
shown in Figures S8 and S9 several of the longest branches (except Bironella itself) were removed.
However, the strongest support was found for Bironella within Anopheles, with little support for
monophyletic Anopheles, suggesting that long branch effects did not affect placement of Bironella
(Table 3, last two lines).
Genus-level relationships in Anophelinae rooted by Chagasia
It is evident in Figures S2 – S7 that Chagasia was the earliest branching genus in the Anophelinae,
and so we will use Chagasia as a valid root for the rest of the Anophelinae. The series of analyses
shown in Figures S10 – S19 and summarized in Table 4 were rooted by Chagasia, and used all
11
311 the new Anopheles sequences together with Bironella, both with and without the nine Anopheles
312 RefSeq sequences. Culex sequences were not used here to remove the possibility that the presence
313 of that outgroup could distort the ingroup relationships. In many cases there was stronger
314 support for Bironella within Anopheles than there was for monophyletic Anopheles (Table 4).
315 Results of the analyses using the CAT-GTR model was an exception that showed moderate (0.72,
316 0.71 BPP) support for Bironella with Chagasia (Figures S10 and S11); this is counter to the
317 CAT-GTR analyses rooted by Culex as shown in Figures S6 – S9, where support for monophyletic
318 genus Anopheles was low (0.07 – 0.265 BPP) with this model. Placement of Bironella was often
319 sister to Anopheles subgenera Cellia, Anopheles, and Nyssorhynchus (Figure 3) and this was
320 equivalent to support for Chagasia together with Anopheles subgenera Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia,
321 and Stethomyia (LKS, not including Bironella), which was highest with the CAT60-MtArt model
322 and lowest with CAT-GTR.
Chagasia
Lophopodomyia
Kerteszia
Stethomyia
Bironella
Anopheles
Cellia
Nyssorhynchus
Figure 3: Most analyses described in this study place Bironella within genus Anopheles.
323 Anophelinae with fast sites removed
324 In this set of analyses fewer Nyssorhynchus sequences were used, and we looked at fast site re-
325 moval to examine reliability of monophyletic Anopheles. The removal of fast sites was conducted
326 in two ways, neither of which uses a tree:
327 1. Using diversity, that is the number of different kinds of amino acid characters in a site
328 [57]. It is assumed that the higher the diversity the higher will be the site rate. Data were
329 prepared by discarding sites with a diversity higher than three, as well as constant sites,
330 leaving 793 of the original 1,128 sites.
331 2. Using TIGER software [58], which identifies fast sites using compatibility. TIGER bins
332 sites into 10 bins, and the sites in the fastest bin were removed, as well as constant sites,
333 leaving 774 of the original 1,128 sites.
334 The results (Table 5 and Figures S20 – S28) of the analyses using all sites (with fewer Nys-
335 sorhynchus) agreed with results of previously described analyses, where the CAT- GTR model
336 showed some small (47% and 50% in replicate analyses) support for monophyletic Anopheles,
337 and the JTT analyses with RAxML and Phyml showed little (28% and 4%) support for mono-
338 phyletic Anopheles. Using only the slow sites in the data can make the analysis more reliable,
12
Table 4: Support for monophyletic genus Anopheles within Anophelinae, rooted by
Chagasia. LKS is Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, and Stethomyia, subgenera of
Anopheles
monophyletic Chagasia
Software model / method RefSeq Anopheles + LKS Figure
PB CAT-GTR + 0.72 0.20 S10
PB CAT-GTR - 0.71 0.12 S11
PB CAT60-MtArt + 0.01 0.905 S12
PB CAT60-MtArt - 0.0 0.90 S13
PB CAT-Poisson + 0.105 0.785 S14
PB CAT-Poisson - 0.045 0.84 S15
a
RAxML JTT+F, RAxML-CAT + 0.22 0.55 S16
RAxML JTT+F, RAxML-CAT - 0.31 0.39 S17
PAUP* maximum parsimony + 0.53 0.24 S18
PAUP* maximum parsimony - 0.56 0.21 S19
a Prottest was used for model choice for the RAxML analysis. Prottest recommended JTT+G+F
with an AICw of 1.0, and so that model was used, although for the RAxML rapid bootstrap the
RAxML-CAT ASRV (among-site rate variation) was used, with only the final optimization evaluated
with Gamma ASRV.
because biases in the data that may cause a lack of model fit would generally manifest in the fast
sites and so their removal would be beneficial [58, 59]. When this was done (Table 5), support
for monophyletic Anopheles was eroded, which seems to argue that the high support for mono-
phyletic Anopheles by the CAT-GTR model was unreliable. Oddly, using JTT with RAxML
and Phyml, support for monophyletic Anopheles increased when fast sites were removed, which
appears to argue the opposite. However, there was still poor support (< 50%) for monophyletic
Anopheles after fast site stripping, and in spite of the ambiguity and contradictions, the tree
shown in Figure 3 appears to be the best summary.
Phylogenetic analysis with DNA sequences
While this study has focussed on amino acid data, for comparison DNA alignments correspond-
ing to the Anophelinae amino acid alignments including RefSeq sequences were prepared, and
analysed with a partitioned ML model, and with the CAT-GTR model of PhyloBayes (Fig-
ures S29 – S34). Results were broadly similar, with mostly well supported clades of Stethomyia,
Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, Anopheles, Cellia, and Nyssorhynchus. However, in contrast to the
phylogenies based on translations (generally as in Figure 3), support for backbone arrangements
of these groups was generally poor and inconsistent using DNA. Support for Bironella within
Anopheles was higher with the PhyloBayes CAT-GTR analyses, and lower for the ML analyses
(Table 6).
Results summary
1. With some inconsistencies, it is most likely that Bironella is placed within Anopheles
2. Placement of Lophopodomyia, Stethomyia, and the clade composed of Cellia with Anophe-
les, were not consistent in the analyses.
13
Table 5: Summary of support values for monophyletic genus Anopheles using fast site stripping.
monophyletic
sites n sites Program, model Anopheles Figure
all 1128 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.47 S20
all 1128 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.50 S21
all 1128 RAxML, PROTCATJTTF 0.28 S22
all 1128 Phyml, JTT+G+F 0.04 S23
slow only, by diversity 793 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.205 S24
slow only, by diversity 793 RAxML, PROTCATJTTF 0.31 S25
slow only, by diversity 793 Phyml, JTT+G+F 0.31 S26
slow only, by TIGER 774 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.245 4
slow only, by TIGER 774 RAxML, PROTCATJTTF 0.48a S27
slow only, by TIGER 774 Phyml, JTT+G+F 0.33 S28
a Note that a consensus tree made from bootstraps of the RAxML analysis of TIGER sites shows
monophyletic Anopheles (with 48% bootstrap support) while the RAxML tree for the same analysis,
which had undergone more ML rearrangements, does not.
Table 6: Summary of support values for monophyletic genus Anopheles using DNA sequences
monophyletic
sites n sites n taxa Program, model Anopheles Figure
positions 1, 2, 3 11202 156 IQ-Tree, partitioned 0.80 S29
positions 1, 2 7468 156 IQ-Tree, partitioned 0.91 S30
positions 1, 2, 3 11202 156 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.76 S31
positions 1, 2 7468 156 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.40 S32
fewer taxa, positions 1, 2a 1727 61 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.25 S33
fewer taxa, positions 1, 2, slow sitesa 1244 60 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.43 S34
a Constant sites removed.
14
SP54 C Chagasia sp.
SP69 22 5 Anopheles kompi Stethomyia n
1.0
PA10 109 Anopheles nimbus Stethomyia n
VP11 Anopheles pseudotibiamaculatus Lophopodomyia n
1.0
GO54 101 Anopheles gilesi Lophopodomyia n
SP24 3 1 Anopheles bellator Kerteszia n
0.6
ST 19 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
1.0
RS30 158 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
1.0
BA22 32 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
BA22 31 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
0.7 PEC 2 7 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
0.9
SP52 103 Anopheles laneanus Kerteszia n
1.0
1.0 BRSP52 17 Anopheles laneanus Kerteszia n
RJ03 2 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
0.7 ST16 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
1.0 RS32 11 7 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
1.0
NC 024740.1 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
Bironella Bironella hollandi
MG07 9 20 Anopheles parvus Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
PR28 5 1 Anopheles parvus Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
MG56 2 4 Anopheles parvus Nyssorhynchus n
RJ20 6 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
MG25 4 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
1.0 MG150 5 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
MG115 7 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
0.7 CE17 14 100 Anopheles sawyeri Nyssorhynchus n
1.0 MG04 03 Anopheles sawyeri Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
MG41 14 Anopheles sawyeri Nyssorhynchus n
SP53 100 Anopheles pristinus Nyssorhynchus n
atacamensis Anopheles atacamensis Nyssorhynchus n
0.9
1.0 PR29 09 06 Anopheles guarani Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
PR29 08 8 Anopheles guarani Nyssorhynchus n
RS19 102 Anopheles lutzii A Nyssorhynchus n
0.9
0.6
SP02 15 5 Anopheles lutzii Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
0.6 SP02 10 5 Anopheles lutzii Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
RS16 109 Anopheles lutzii B Nyssorhynchus n
B369 Anopheles lutzii B Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
VP09 17 Anopheles antunesi Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
RJ03 11 Anopheles antunesi Nyssorhynchus n
NC 002084.1 Anopheles gambiae Cellia n
0.9
NC 020768.1 Anopheles cracens Cellia n
1.0
NC 020770.1 Anopheles farauti No. 4 Cellia n
1.0
NC 020769.1 Anopheles hinesorum Cellia n
NC 000875.1 Anopheles quadrimaculatus A Anopheles n
0.6
SP06 12 Anopheles e. geometricus Anopheles n
0.8 1.0
RJ04 2 Anopheles e. geometricus Anopheles n
0.8
RO14 100 Anopheles minor Anopheles n
1.0
ES26 101 Anopheles minor Anopheles n
1.0
RO38 2 Anopheles peryassui Anopheles n
1.0
1.0
PA12 7 6 Anopheles peryassui Anopheles n
1.0
AP21 28 2 Anopheles peryassui Anopheles n
SP02 1 1 Anopheles fluminensis Anopheles n
1.0
RJ04 1 Anopheles fluminensis Anopheles n
1.0 AP17 Anopheles intermedius Anopheles n
1.0
SP02 8 1 Anopheles intermedius Anopheles n
1.0 PNJ2 Anopheles forattinii Anopheles n
1.0 BA58 100 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
BA21 1 2 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
1.0
SP02 17 3 Anopheles near costai Anopheles n
1.0
Icapara1 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
0.1
BRSP57 1 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
Figure 4: Anophelinae with reduced taxa, rooted by Chagasia. Mitochondrial protein sequences,
slow sites only using TIGER, analysed with PhyloBayes using the CAT-GTR model.
15
361 3. The current subgenera — Stethomyia, Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, Anopheles, and Cellia —
362 were consistently found to be monophyletic groups.
363 4. The subgenus Nyssorhynchus was unambiguously subdivided into two strongly supported
364 groups that were found in all analyses independent of the approach and model adopted.
365 The Nyssorhynchus was subdivided into two major monophyletic groups (BPP = 1.0) (Fig-
366 ures S10 – S15, S20, S21, S24, 4). One group was composed of Anopheles parvus and the
367 second group included the remaining species of the Myzorhynchella Section plus Anopheles
368 atacamensis of the Argyritarsis Section that was recovered as sister to the group (Anophe-
369 les argyritarsis plus Anopheles sawyeri). Monophyly of the Argyritarsis and Albimanus
370 Sections was not corroborated by any of the analysis and partition schemes.
371 Discussion
372 The systematic treatment of the Anophelinae has undergone extensive changes since Theobald
373 [60], who proposed several genera based on characteristics of abdominal and thoracic scales. Sub-
374 sequently, Christophers [61] named three genera based on characteristics of the male genitalia.
375 Later, Edwards [62] and Root [63] recognized the three genera — Anopheles, Myzomyia (equiva-
376 lent to Cellia) and Nyssorhynchus — as subgenera. Edwards [64] added Stethomyia as a subgenus
377 of Anopheles, with Kerteszia as an informal group within the subgenus Nyssorhynchus. Then, An-
378 tunes [65] proposed the Lophopodomyia subgenus, and Komp [66] elevated Kerteszia to subgenus
379 level. More recently, Harbach, Rattanarithikul, and Harrision [sic] [18] described the subgenus
380 Baimaia, and Harbach and Kitching [8] resurrected Christya from synonymy with Anopheles.
381 Currently, Anophelinae encompasses three genera, Anopheles, Bironella and Chagasia, with the
382 genus Anopheles encompassing eight subgenera, of which four — Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, Nys-
383 sorhynchus, and Stethomyia — are primarily limited to the Neotropical Region [Table 1, 8, 67].
384 The subdivision of the genus Anopheles into subgenera is based primarily on characters of the
385 male genitalia, especially the number and placement of setae in the gonocoxite, characteristics
386 of the ventral and dorsal claspette, aedeagus, proctiger, and the ninth segment [11]. The largest
387 subgenera in number of species are Anopheles, Cellia and Nyssorhynchus, and each subgenus is
388 subdivided into several informal groups, subgroups and complexes [8, 67].
389 Several previous studies have attempted to recover internal relationships among Anophelinae
390 genera and among the Anopheles subgenera using morphology [8, 11, 12, 21], nuclear and mito-
391 chondrial protein-coding genes [20, 22], mitochondrial and ribosomal genes, among others [13,
392 16], but the results have been unclear. That most studies were done with few taxa and few
393 genes are among the reasons for the unsettled results, and this motivated the use of complete
394 mitochondrial genomes and a wide taxon sampling in this study. Using mitochondrial genomes
395 has been considered a positive advance over previously-used molecular datasets for recovering
396 interfamily relationships and for increasing support for deep nodes in phylogenies of termites
397 [23]. However, it has also become evident that the mitochondrial genome may fail to recon-
398 struct deep phylogenetic relationships [25, 68]. Model choice can have a crucial role when using
399 mitochondrial genomes, as in the recent study of paraneopteran orders by Li et al. [69]. They
400 found big differences in substutition rates in different lineages, leading to apparent long branch
401 attraction using site-homogeneous empirical models, which however was ameliorated using the
402 site-heterogeneous CAT and CAT-GTR models as implemented in PhyloBayes. They also noted
403 extreme saturation, and that also appeared to be accommodated well by CAT and CAT-GTR.
404 They described the tree-heterogeneous composition of the DNA sequences, but they did not
405 prefer use of AA sequences (which would have decreased the tree-heterogeneous composition)
406 because using protein sequences decreased support for some groupings recovered by DNA se-
16
quences. However, a previous study using mitochondrial genomes for deep insect phylogenetics
by Talavera and Vila [70] recommended using amino acid sequences to avoid long branch attrac-
tion, in addition to use of the PhyloBayes CAT model. For example it was only by using amino
acid sequences with the CAT model that the Strepsiptera lineage was released from long branch
attraction to the Hymenoptera, allowing it to be placed as sister to Coleoptera in agreement
with current morphological and nuclear gene phylogenies. Although they had some success in
avoiding long branch attraction using the CAT model with amino acid data, going deeper they
were not able to recover super-order relationships reliably in insects.
In this study we noted that the DNA sequences of our mitochondrial genomes were heteroge-
neous in composition, while the amino acid translations were not, as measured using a <U+03C7>2 test
for compositional heterogeneity (see Results, paragraph 2), and this was a major reason for us
to use the amino acid sequences of the protein-coding genes. We mainly used the CAT-GTR
model in PhyloBayes, but we compared this model with others. We also used long-branch taxa
exclusion, fast site exclusion, and different outgroup rooting levels in order to test our results.
Although there were limitations of the mitochondrial genome for inferring deep branch relation-
ships within Anophelinae, the results of our phylogenetic analyses provided support for groups
that have been previously defined based on morphological differences and similarities [60, 64],
and results of cladistics analyses [8, 11, 12], among other taxonomic studies. An analyis analy-
sis rooted using other nematocerous Diptera confirmed monophyly of the Culicinae family, and
monophyly of the Anophelinae and Culicinae subfamilies (Figures ??, Figure S1).
Our analysis of relationships in Anophelinae partly contradict the current scheme of clas-
sification proposed by Harbach and Kitching [8] at the genus and subgenus levels. There is
no contradiction regarding the phylogenetic systematization of the genus Chagasia as a mono-
phyletic group that is sister to the clade composed of Bironella and Anopheles genera within
Anophelinae. This is in agreement with other studies using either morphological characters [11,
71] or different sources of DNA sequence [13, 15, 16, 20]. However, the single representative of
the genus Bironella included in the study, Bironella hollandi, was found either within the genus
Anopheles or as its sister depending on the analytical approach adopted and data partitioning
schemes. Placement of Bironella nested within a more inclusive monophyletic group consisting
of species of the genus Anopheles does not seem to be attributable to long-branch attraction
(Table 3, Figures S8, S9, S24 – S28). Consequently, the current status of Bironella as a genus
within the Anophelinae and the monophyly of the genus Anopheles s.l. are arguable. The lim-
ited sampling of some groups such as Bironella (one species), Stethomyia and Lophopodomyia
(two species each, see below) may have contributed to the inconsistent deep relationships within
Anophelinae. Thus, in order to resolve the phylogenetic position of Bironella, one strategy would
be to use better taxon sampling; along with species from the other two Bironella subgenera —
Neobironella and Brugella — the taxon sample should also include Anopheles and Cellia species
from the Afrotropical, Indo-Malay, Australasian and Palearctic biodiversity regions. Another
strategy would be to use nuclear sequences of single-copy genes and transcriptomes to overcome
the problems that seem to be inherent in deep phylogenetics using mitogenomes [72–74].
Within Anophelinae, our estimated phylogenetic trees recovered relationships that are con-
gruent with those suggested in the current classification proposed by Harbach and Kitching
[8]. Species of the genus Anopheles consistently clustered into six major strongly supported
monophyletic groups, coincident with current named subgenera: Anopheles, Cellia, Kerteszia,
Lophopodomyia, Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia (Figures S1–S28). However, in our study phy-
logenetic relationships among Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, and Stethomyia were unstable, varying
depending on the method and taxon sampling. Biological classification of supraspecific taxa
should be strictly based on the monophyly of taxa and all major lineages in a phylogenetic
tree need to be named [75, 76]. There are two major sources of instability in the classifica-
17
456 tion of Anophelinae: (1) the paraphyly of the genus Anopheles if is likely not monophyletic
457 because the genus Bironella is excluded from it (Figs. 4, S1likely lies within it (Figures 3,
458 S1); and (2) the current internal classification of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus is primarily based
459 on non-monophyletic lineages (Figs. S2 - S29). Thus, considering that the major aim of Fig-
460 ures S2–S28). Further, considering the presence of non-monopheletic groups within Anophelinae,
461 we feel confident in proposing a new scheme of classification for the subfamily, mainly focused
462 on rearrangements of subgenera of the genus Anopheles (Table 7). Elevation of Neotropical sub-
463 genera of Anopheles to genus level can be justified and supported if we consider that the primary
464 aim of any biological classification is systematization of species according to the monophyly of
465 higher-level taxa [75]the systematization of monophyletic supraspecific taxa, and name them
466 formally or demonstrate their presence in nature [75, 77]. Recently, Wilkerson et al. [78] re-
467 stored Aedini classification to a generic designation that has been applied worldwide by medical
468 entomologists. The main reasons for the decision, in the name of classification stability, was
469 the community consensus and hall of fame criteria that are important considerations for Aedes
470 aegypti and Aedes albopictus, among other medically important species of the genus Aedes. In ad-
471 dition, Wilkerson and colleagues also reversed the classification summarized in Reinert et al., we
472 feel confident in proposing an alternative scheme of classification for the subfamily Anophelinae,
473 mainly focused on rearrangements of subgenera of the genus 2009 [79] to allow taxonomists to
474 accurately assign new species to a genus and to obtain additional knowledge about strongly sup-
475 ported monophyletic groups of species that will orient further nomenclature changes and taxon
476 naming within Aedini.
477 The classification proposed herein is supported by results of phylogenetic studies and the
478 presence of natural groups that have been accepted by most medical entomologists. We find
479 support for our decision when we consider the Taxon Naming Criteria (TNC) suggested by
480 Vences et al. [75]. According to these authors, taxonomists should provide a universal and stable
481 system of classification for supraspecific taxa, and they proposed three major groups of criteria
482 — priority, secondary, and accessory, that should be considered prior to any decision about
483 naming monophyletic supraspecific taxa and consequent nomenclature changes. The priority
484 group includes: (1) mandatory monophyly of the taxon in an inferred species tree, (2) clade
485 stability derived from analyses that included various methods of tree inference, clade robustness,
486 corroborated by a distinct set of characters, and (3) phenotypic diagnosability. The secondary
487 and accessory groups include four criteria each, among them biogeography, manageability, hall
488 of fame, nomenclature stability, and community consensus.
489 In the current study, we invoke the priority recommendations of Vences et al. as unambiguous
490 support for elevating Neotropical Nyssorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia
491 subgenera to genus level. The monophyly of these taxa were always robust, independent of
492 the analytical phylogenetic approach, taxon sampling strategy, or source of data employed for
493 the analyses, such as morphology [11, 12, 17, 21], nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequence data
494 [13, 15, 16], and mitogenome data as shown in this study. In addition, Nyssorhynchus, Kerteszia,
495 Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia can be easily distinguished from the clade composed of Anophe-
496 les and Cellia based on autapomorphies of female and male genitalia or a set of morphological
497 characters that together can be employed to distinguish these taxa from other Anophelinae gen-
498 era [11, 12, 17, 21]. The secondary TNC criteria, such as time banding, adaptive zone, hybrid
499 viability of taxa, and biogeography, cannot be used because there is not enough available infor-
500 mation in the published literature.
501 The accessory TNC criteria include the manageability of a higher taxon that should contain
502 a number of lower taxa manageable for the human mind, avoiding oversplitting and creating
503 monotypic groups. Thus, the criteria of manageability provide extra strength to elevate Nys-
504 sorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia monophyletic lineages to genus level.
18
These Neotropical taxa contain few (a “manageable” number) of species, and each of them can
be recognized by their morphological distinctiveness from other Anophelinae genera. The genus
Anopheles (Table 7) . 410 species, Table 1) that encompasses the species-rich subgenera Cellia
(224 species) and Anopheles (183 species) is more problematic in terms of manageability and
morphological diagnosability because they are not phenotypically homogeneous [11, 12, 17, 21].
Characters of the male genitalia, whose homology has not been clearly defined, can distinguish
these genera. As argued by Vences and colleagues, over-splitting a supraspecific taxon is a way
to favor the principle of stability. However, this extreme situation should be avoided because
it would have an undesirable impact on the evolutionary classification of organisms. The hall
of fame accessory taxon naming criterion that urges taxonomists to consider the economy of
change when proposing reclassification of organisms justifies our decision for not splitting the
monophyletic clade composed of Anopheles and Cellia into smaller monophyletic subunits. The
major reason for not splitting is that both the phylogeny and the phenotypic diagnosability are
incomplete for these subgenera and thus require further study. On the other hand, the highly
stable monophyly of the Neotropical Nyssorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia
subgenera justify elevating them to genus level.
Taking all the results together, we challenge the current classification of Anophelinae by propos-
ing a revision at the genus and subgenus ranks that is consistent with our interpretation of the
phylogenetic trees. Our revision preserves the six monophyletic groups that were recovered
regardless of the analytical approaches adopted in the study. These are the six subgenera of
Anopheles, the monophyly of which has been previously corroborated by morphology [8, 11,
12], and nuclear gene data sets [13, 15, 16, 20, 22, 80]. Accordingly, the subgenera Cellia, Nys-
sorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia are elevated to genus rank, and the genus
Anopheles will include the subgenera Anopheles, Baimaia, and Christya, and Cellia (Table 7).
Therefore, species assigned originally to a particular subgenus will be moved from the genus
Anopheles to their respective newly proposed genus.
Focusing on the Nyssohynchus clade, we propose adjustments in the current classification. The
Nyssorhynchus clade is composed of two major monophyletic sister groups (Figures S1–S28).
One group includes specimens of Anopheles parvus from the Myzorhynchella Section [81], and
the second group is composed of remaining species assigned originally to the Albimanus [82], Ar-
gyritarsis [83] and Myzorhynchella [81] Sections of Nyssorhynchus (Figures S2–S28). Although
Anopheles parvus had been placed in the Myzorhynchella Section on the basis of morphologi-
cal similarities with other species of the section [84, 85], Bourke et al. [86], in a phylogenetic
analysis of the Myzorhynchella Section employing DNA sequences of the nuclear white white
gene, showed that Anopheles parvus is placed outside a more inclusive group consisting of most
Myzorhynchella species. Then, Foster et al. [22] proposed that the species should be placed into
a separate subgenus of Anopheles because Anopheles parvus is phenotypically distinguishable
by unique morphological features in the egg [87] and male genitalia [84, 85] in addition to the
large K2P COI barcode distances compared to other Nyssorhynchus species. Our results here
show that the Myzorhynchella Section [81] is a paraphyletic not a monophyletic group because
Anopheles parvus is consistently placed as a sister group to all the other Nyssorhynchus, separate
from the other Myzorhynchella. In addition, Anopheles atacamensis of the Argyritarsis Section
nests within the Myzorhynchella Section (See Table 2, which lists the other members of the
Myzorhynchella Section in the current classification). The Myzorhynchella were described as a
genus of Anophelinae by Theobald [60] to include Myzorhynchella nigra Theobald. Then, the
genus Myzorhynchella was synonomyzed with Anopheles by Howard, Dyar, and Knab [88], and
redefined as a species group within the subgenus Nyssorhynchus by Christophers [89]. Later,
Galvão [85] elevated Myzorhynchella to subgenus rank, which was accepted by Lane [90]. More
recently, Peyton, Wilkerson, and Harbach [81] redefined Myzorhynchella as a section of the sub-
19
554 genus Nyssorhynchus. Considering that the type species of the Myzorhynchella is Anopheles
555 nigra currently in synonomy with Anopheles lutzii Cruz, the name Myzorhynchella is preserved
556 to be the clade that contains Anopheles lutzii. Elevating the Myzorhynchella to a subgenus of
557 the genus Nyssorhynchus implies that it will encompasses Anopheles antunesi, Anopheles ataca-
558 mensis, Anopheles guarani, Anopheles lutzii, Anopheles nigritarsis, Anopheles pictipennis, and
559 Anopheles pristinus. Consequently, Anopheles parvus will be placed into a new genus, as yet
560 unnamed, that will be described in a further study. The second major monophyletic group of
561 the Nyssorhynchus clade includes Anopheles argyritarsis, the type species of Nyssorhynchus, and
562 thus preserves the name Nyssorhynchus at the genus rank. Species of the Nyssorhynchus genus
563 are placed into two monophyletic groups here defined as subgenera. One subgenus contains
564 species of the Albimanus (Faran 1980) [82] and Argyritarsis Series [83] [83] [sensu 67], except for
565 Anopheles atacamensis. As Anopheles argyritarsis belongs to this clade, we consider it as the
566 Nyssorhynchus subgenus.
567 Summary
568 With this study, we provided phylogenetic support for monophyly of Culicidae, and the subfam-
569 ilies Anophelinae and Culicinae. The genus Chagasia is consistently the earliest branching group
570 within Anophelinae. The phylogenetic position of Bironella, while not conclusive, is most likely
571 within the current genus Anopheles, which implies that the latter as currently defined is not
572 monophyletic. The subgenus Nyssorhynchus is sister to the clade containing Anopheles parvus, a
573 species that belongs to a yet unnamed genus. Cellia, Anopheles, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and
574 Stethomyia are monophyletic groups of the Anophelinae.
575 With the results of this study, we suggest modifications to the Anophelinae classification as
576 follows:
577 1. Elevate the monophyletic groupings Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia
578 to genus level.
579 2. Genus Anopheles Anopheles to include subgenera Anopheles, Baimaia, Cellia, and Christya.
580 3. Anopheles parvus to be removed from Nyssorhynchus and to be placed into a new genus to
581 be described in the near future.
582 4. Genus Nyssorhynchus to include two subgenera – Myzorhynchella and Nyssorhynchus.
583 5. Myzorhynchella to be elevated from a Section to subgenus rank of the newly proposed
584 genus Nyssorhynchus — subgenus Myzorhynchella.
585 6. Both Anopheles atacamensis and Anopheles pictipennis to be transferred from subgenus
586 Nyssorhynchus to the newly proposed subgenus Myzorhynchella.
587 7. Subgenus Nyssorhynchus to include species of the Argyritarsis and Albimanus Sections,
588 except for those transferred to the Myzorhynchella subgenus.
589 We provide this alternative hypothesis for classification of Anophelinae in Table 7.
590 Ethics
591 All necessary permits were obtained for the described study. Mosquito collections were carried
592 out under permit number 16938-1 from Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos
20
Table 7: New classification proposal for the subfamily Anophelinae
Genus sensu sensu Harbach Newly proposed genus Subgenus sensu sensu Newly proposed subgenus Type species
(2016)* systematization Harbach (2016)* systematization
Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles maculipennis
Meigen, 1818
Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles maculipennis
Meigen, 1818
Baimaia Harbach, Baimaia Harbach, Anopheles kyondawensis
Rattanarithikul & Harrison Rattanarithikul & Harrison Abraham, 1947
Christya Theobald, 1903 Christya Theobald, 1903 Anopheles implexus
(Theobald, 1903)
Cellia Theobald, 1902 Cellia pharoensis
— Cellia Theobald, 1902 (Theobald, 1901)
Kerteszia Theobald, 1905 Kerteszia Theobald, 1905 — Kerteszia boliviensis
Theobald 1905
Lophopodomyia Antunes, Lophopodomyia Antunes, — Lophopodomyia
1937 1937 squamifemur (Antunes,
1937)
Nyssorhynchus Blanchard, Nyssorhynchus Blanchard, Nyssorhynchus Blanchard, Nyssorhynchus argyritarsis
1902 1902 1902 (Robineau-Desvoidy, 1827)
Myzorhynchella Theobald, Nyssorhynchus niger
1907 (Theobald, 1907); Currently,
synonym of Ny. lutzii
To be described — Nyssorhynchus parvus
(Chagas, 1907)
Stethomyia Theobald, 1902 Stethomyia Theobald, 1902 — Stethomyia nimbus
Theobald, 1902
Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella gracilis Theobald,
1905
Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella gracilis Theobald,
1905
Brugella Edwards, 1930 Brugella Edwards, 1930 Bironella travestita (Brug,
1928)
Neobioronella Tenorio, 1977 Neobioronella Tenorio, 1977 Bironella confusa
Bonne-Wepster, 1951
Chagasia Cruz, 1906 Chagasia Cruz, 1906 — — Chagasia neivae Cruz, 1906;
Currently, synonym of
Chagasia fajardi
* Reference: Mosquito Taxonomic Inventory (www.mosquito-taxonomic-inventory.info/). Updated 22 April 2016 by Ralph E. Harbach.
21
593 Naturais Renováveis (IBAMA) to Maria Anice M. Sallum. Specific permission was not required
594 for these locations as permission to collect was granted under the permanent permit. The
595 collection locations were not privately owned or protected in any way, and the field collections
596 did not involve protected or endangered species.
597 Data accessibility
598 DNA sequences are available at the NCBI GenBank under the following accession codes: KU551283
599 – KU551289, MF040161 – MF040165, and MF381582 – MF381737. All specimen vouchers are
600 deposited in the Universidade de São Paulo, Faculdade de Saúde Pública Collection.
601 Authors’ contributions
602 M.A.M.S, P.G.F., and E.S.B devised the study. E.S.B., D.C.S’A., S.S.N., C.G., made field col-
603 lections. D.C.S’A. and S.S.N. did specimen acquisition. D.C.S’A. and C.C.M. did specimen
604 curation. T.M.P.deO. did laboratory manipulations for sequencing. P.G.F. did sequence assem-
605 bly, annotation, and curation, phylogenetic analysis, and made the phylogenetic figures. S.N.
606 and C.E.L. reviewed and edited the first draft of the manuscript. P.G.F., M.A.M.S., and J.E.C
607 wrote the manuscript. M.A.M.S did species identification, got financial support, and oversaw
608 the project. All authors gave final approval for publication.
609 Competing interests
610 We declare that we have no compteting interests.
611 Funding
612 Financial support from Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP
613 Grants no. 2014/26229-7 and 2011/20397-7) was provided to MAMS and ESB; additionally,
614 NIH AI R01110112 provided partial financial support to JEC and MAMS. ; CNPq Grant no.
615 301877/2016-5 to MAMS.
616 Acknowledgements
617 We are in debt to Monique Albuquerque Motta (IOC – Rio de Janeiro), Luiz Carlos Oliveira
618 (FSP-USP), Allan Silva Martins, and other colleagues that kindly helped us in the field collec-
619 tions.
620 Footnotes
621 References
622 1. Feachem RGA, Phillips AA, Hwang J, Cotter C, Wielgosz B, Greenwood BM, Sabot O,
623 Rodriguez MH, et al. 2010 Shrinking the malaria map: progress and prospects. Lancet 376,
624 1566–78. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61270-6.
22
2. Liu J, Modrek S, Gosling RD, Feachem RGA. 2013 Malaria eradication: is it possible?
Is it worth it? Should we do it? Lancet Glob. Health 1, e2–3. doi: 10 . 1016 / S2214 -
109X(13)70002-0.
3. WHO. 2016 World Malaria Report. World Health Organization, Geneva.
4. PAHO. 2016 Report on the situation of malaria in the Americas 2014. Pan American Health
Organization, Washington, D. C.
5. Calderaro A, Piccolo G, Gorrini C, Rossi S, Montecchini S, Dell’Anna ML, De Conto F,
Medici MC, et al. 2013 Accurate identification of the six human Plasmodium spp. causing
imported malaria, including Plasmodium ovale wallikeri and Plasmodium knowlesi. Malar.
J. 12, 321. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-12-321.
6. Forattini OP. 2002 Culicidologia Médica II. Editora da Universidade de São Paulo, São
Paulo.
7. Harbach RE. 2015 Mosquito Taxonomic Inventory. url: http://www.mosquito-taxonomic-
inventory.info.
8. Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 2016 The phylogeny of Anophelinae revisited: inferences about
the origin and classification of Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae). Zool. Scr. 45, 34–47. doi:
10.1111/zsc.12137.
9. Tenorio JA. 1977 Revision of the genus Bironella (Diptera: Culicidae). J. Med. Entomol.
14, 317–361. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/14.3.317.
10. Harbach RE, Howard TM. 2009 Review of the genus Chagasia (Diptera: Culicidae: Anophe-
linae). Zootaxa 2210, 1–25.
11. Sallum MAM, Schultz TR, Wilkerson RC. 2000 Phylogeny of Anophelinae (Diptera: Culi-
cidae) based on morphological characters. Ann. Entomol. Soc. Am. 93, 745–775. doi: 10.
1603/0013-8746(2000)093[0745:POADCB]2.0.CO;2.
12. Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 2005 Reconsideration of anopheline mosquito phylogeny (Diptera:
Culicidae: Anophelinae) based on morphological data. Syst. Biodiversity 3, 345–374. doi:
10.1017/S147720000500174X.
13. Sallum MAM, Schultz TR, Foster PG, Aronstein K, Wirtz RA, Wilkerson RC. 2002 Phy-
logeny of Anophelinae (Diptera: Culicidae) based on nuclear ribosomal and mitochondrial
DNA sequences. Syst. Entomol. 27, 361–382. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-3113.2002.00182.x.
14. Krzywinski J, Besansky NJ. 2003 Molecular systematics of Anopheles: from subgenera to
subpopulations. Ann. Rev. Entomol. 48, 111–139. doi: 10 . 1146 / annurev . ento . 48 .
091801.112647.
15. Freitas LA, Russo CAM, Voloch CM, Mutaquiha OCF, Marques LP, Schrago CG. 2015
Diversification of the genus Anopheles and a Neotropical clade from the Late Cretaceous.
PloS One 10, e0134462. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0134462.
16. Krzywinski J, Wilkerson RC, Besansky NJ. 2001 Evolution of mitochondrial and ribosomal
gene sequences in Anophelinae (Diptera: Culicidae): implications for phylogeny reconstruc-
tion. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 18, 479–487. doi: 10.1006/mpev.2000.0894.
17. Collucci E, Sallum MAM. 2007 Cladistic analysis of the subgenus Anopheles (Anopheles)
Meigen (Diptera: Culicidae) based on morphological characters. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz
102, 277–292. doi: 10.1590/S0074-02762007005000026.
18. Harbach RE, Rattanarithikul R, Harrision [sic] BA. 2005 Baimaia, a new subgenus for
Anopheles kyondawensis Abraham, a unique crabhole-breeding anopheline in southeastern
Asia. Proc. Entomol. Soc. Wash. 107, 750–761.
23
670 19. Foley DH, Bryan JH, Yeates D, Saul A. 1998 Evolution and Systematics of Anopheles:
671 Insights from a Molecular Phylogeny of Australasian Mosquitoes. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 9,
672 262–275. doi: 10.1006/mpev.1997.0457.
673 20. Krzywinski J, Wilkerson RC, Besansky NJ. 2001 Toward understanding Anophelinae (Diptera,
674 Culicidae) phylogeny: insights from nuclear single-copy genes and the weight of evidence.
675 Syst. Biol. 50, 540–556. doi: 10.1080/10635150119931.
676 21. Collucci E, Sallum MAM. 2003 Phylogenetic analysis of the subgenus Kerteszia of Anopheles
677 (Diptera: Culicidae: Anophelinae) based on morphological characters. Insect Syst. Evol. 34,
678 iii–372. doi: 10.1163/187631203X00018.
679 22. Foster PG, Bergo ES, Bourke BP, Oliveira TMP, Nagaki SS, Sant’Ana DC, Sallum MAM.
680 2013 Phylogenetic analysis and DNA-based species confirmation in Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus).
681 PLoS One 8, e54063. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054063.
682 23. Cameron SL, Lo N, Bourguignon T, Svenson GJ, Evans TA. 2012 A mitochondrial genome
683 phylogeny of termites (Blattodea: Termitoidae): robust support for interfamilial relation-
684 ships and molecular synapomorphies define major clades. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 65, 163–
685 173. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.05.034.
686 24. Bernt M, Bleidorn C, Braband A, Dambach J, Donath A, Fritzsch G, Golombek A, Hadrys
687 H, et al. 2013 A comprehensive analysis of bilaterian mitochondrial genomes and phylogeny.
688 Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 69, 352–364. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.05.002.
689 25. Cameron SL. 2014 Insect mitochondrial genomics: implications for evolution and phylogeny.
690 Ann. Rev. Entomol. 59, 95–117. doi: 10.1146/annurev-ento-011613-162007.
691 26. Demari-Silva B, Foster PG, Oliveira TMP de, Bergo ES, Sanabani SS, Pessôa R, Sallum
692 MAM. 2015 Mitochondrial genomes and comparative analyses of Culex camposi, Culex
693 coronator, Culex usquatus and Culex usquatissimus (Diptera: Culicidae), members of the
694 coronator group. BMC Genomics 16, 1. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-1951-0.
695 27. Oliveira TMP, Foster PG, Bergo ES, Nagaki SS, Sanabani SS, Marinotti O, Marinotti PN,
696 Sallum MAM. 2016 Mitochondrial Genomes of Anopheles (Kerteszia)(Diptera: Culicidae)
697 From the Atlantic Forest, Brazil. J. Med. Entomol. 0, tjw001. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjw001.
698 28. Krzywinski J, Grushko OG, Besansky NJ. 2006 Analysis of the complete mitochondrial
699 DNA from Anopheles funestus: an improved dipteran mitochondrial genome annotation
700 and a temporal dimension of mosquito evolution. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 39, 417–423. doi:
701 10.1016/j.ympev.2006.01.006.
702 29. Krzywinski J, Li C, Morris M, Conn JE, Lima JB, Povoa MM, Wilkerson RC. 2011 Analysis
703 of the evolutionary forces shaping mitochondrial genomes of a Neotropical malaria vector
704 complex. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 58, 469–477. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2011.01.003.
705 30. Moreno M, Marinotti O, Krzywinski J, Tadei WP, James AA, Achee NL, Conn JE. 2010
706 Complete mtDNA genomes of Anopheles darlingi and an approach to anopheline divergence
707 time. Malar. J. 9, 1. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-9-127.
708 31. Logue K, Chan ER, Phipps T, Small ST, Reimer L, Henry-Halldin C, Sattabongkot J, Siba
709 PM, et al. 2013 Mitochondrial genome sequences reveal deep divergences among Anopheles
710 punctulatus sibling species in Papua New Guinea. Malar. J. 12, 1. doi: 10.1186/1475-
711 2875-12-64.
712 32. Yang X, Cameron SL, Lees DC, Xue D, Han H. 2015 A mitochondrial genome phylogeny
713 of owlet moths (Lepidoptera: Noctuoidea), and examination of the utility of mitochondrial
714 genomes for lepidopteran phylogenetics. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 85, 230–237. doi: 10.1016/
715 j.ympev.2015.02.005.
24
33. Foster PG, Hickey DA. 1999 Compositional bias may affect both DNA-based and protein-
based phylogenetic reconstructions. J. Mol. Evol. 48, 284–290. doi: 10.1007/PL00006471.
34. Rota-Stabelli O, Lartillot N, Philippe H, Pisani D. 2013 Serine codon-usage bias in deep
phylogenomics: pancrustacean relationships as a case study. Syst. Biol. 62, 121–133. doi:
10.1093/sysbio/sys077.
35. Cox CJ, Li B, Foster PG, Embley TM, Civán P. 2014 Conflicting phylogenies for early land
plants are caused by composition biases among synonymous substitutions. Syst. Biol. 63,
272–279. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syt109.
36. Sallum MAM, Foster PG, Dos Santos CLS, Flores DC, Motoki MT, Bergo ES. 2010 Res-
urrection of two species from synonymy of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) strodei Root, and
characterization of a distinct morphological form from the strodei complex (Diptera: Culi-
cidae). J. Med. Entomol. 47, 504–526. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/47.4.504.
37. Nagaki SS, Motta MdA, Sallum MAM. 2010 Redescription of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus)
antunesi Galvão & Amaral and description of a new species of the Myzorhynchella Section
(Diptera: Culicidae) from Serra da Mantiqueira, Brazil. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 105,
278–285. doi: 10.1590/S0074-02762010000300006.
38. Sanger F, Nicklen S, Coulson AR. 1977 DNA sequencing with chain-terminating inhibitors.
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. (USA) 74, 5463–5467.
39. Chevreux B, Wetter T, Suhai S. Genome sequence assembly using trace signals and ad-
ditional sequence information. Computer Science and Biology: Proceedings of the German
conference on bioinformatics. 99. Heidelberg, pp. 45–56.
40. Peng Y, Leung HCM, Yiu S.-M, Chin FYL. 2012 IDBA-UD: a de novo assembler for single-
cell and metagenomic sequencing data with highly uneven depth. Bioinformatics 28, 1420–
1428. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts174.
41. Huang X, Madan A. 1999 CAP3: A DNA sequence assembly program. Genome Res. 9,
868–877. doi: 10.1101/gr.9.9.868.
42. Milne I, Stephen G, Bayer M, Cock PJ, Pritchard L, Cardle L, Shaw PD, Marshall D. 2013
Using Tablet for visual exploration of second-generation sequencing data. Brief. Bioinf. 14,
193–202. doi: doi.org/10.1093/bib/bbs012.
43. Altschul SF, Madden TL, Schäffer AA, Zhang J, Zhang Z, Miller W, Lipman DJ. 1997
Gapped BLAST and PSI-BLAST: a new generation of protein database search programs.
Nucl. Acids Res. 25, 3389–3402. doi: 10.1093/nar/25.17.3389.
44. Bernt M, Donath A, Jühling F, Externbrink F, Florentz C, Fritzsch G, Pütz J, Middendorf
M, et al. 2013 MITOS: Improved de novo metazoan mitochondrial genome annotation. Mol.
Phylogenet. Evol. 69, 313–319. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.08.023.
45. Cock PJA, Antao T, Chang JT, Chapman BA, Cox CJ, Dalke A, Friedberg I, Hamelryck T,
et al. 2009 Biopython: freely available Python tools for computational molecular biology and
bioinformatics. Bioinformatics 25, 1422–1423. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btp163.
46. Foster PG. 2004 Modeling compositional heterogeneity. Syst. Biol. 53, 485–495. doi: 10.
1080/10635150490445779.
47. Sievers F, Wilm A, Dineen D, Gibson TJ, Karplus K, Li W, Lopez R, McWilliam H, et al.
2011 Fast, scalable generation of high-quality protein multiple sequence alignments using
Clustal Omega. Mol. Syst. Biol. 7, 539. doi: 10.1038/msb.2011.75.
25
759 48. Castresana J. 2000 Selection of conserved blocks from multiple alignments for their use
760 in phylogenetic analysis. Mol. Biol. Evol. 17, 540–552. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.
761 molbev.a026334.
762 49. Lartillot N, Philippe H. 2004 A Bayesian mixture model for across-site heterogeneities in
763 the amino-acid replacement process. Mol. Biol. Evol. 21, 1095–1109. doi: 10.1093/molbev/
764 msh112.
765 50. Swofford DL. 2003 PAUP*. Phylogenetic analysis using parsimony (* and other methods).
766 Version 4.
767 51. Guindon S, Gascuel O. 2003 A simple, fast, and accurate algorithm to estimate large phylo-
768 genies by maximum likelihood. Syst. Biol. 52, 696–704. doi: 10.1080/10635150390235520.
769 52. Stamatakis A. 2014 RAxML version 8: a tool for phylogenetic analysis and post-analysis of
770 large phylogenies. Bioinformatics 30, 1312–1313. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu033.
771 53. Nguyen L.-T, Schmidt HA, Haeseler A von, Minh BQ. 2014 IQ-TREE: A Fast and Effective
772 Stochastic Algorithm for Estimating Maximum-Likelihood Phylogenies. Mol. Biol. Evol. 32,
773 268–274. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msu300.
774 54. Minh BQ, Nguyen MAT, Haeseler A von. 2013 Ultrafast Approximation for Phylogenetic
775 Bootstrap. Mol. Biol. Evol. 30, 1188–1195. doi: 10.1093/molbev/mst024.
776 55. Chernomor O, Haeseler A von, Minh BQ. 2016 Terrace Aware Data Structure for Phy-
777 logenomic Inference from Supermatrices. Syst. Biol. 65, 997–1008. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/
778 syw037.
779 56. Kalyaanamoorthy S, Minh BQ, Wong TKF, Haeseler A von, Jermiin LS. 2017 ModelFinder:
780 fast model selection for accurate phylogenetic estimates. Nature Methods 14, 587–589. doi:
781 10.1038/nmeth.4285.
782 57. Hansmann S, Martin W. 2000 Phylogeny of 33 ribosomal and six other proteins encoded in
783 an ancient gene cluster that is conserved across prokaryotic genomes: influence of excluding
784 poorly alignable sites from analysis. Int. J. Syst. Evol. Microbiol. 50, 1655–1663. doi:
785 10.1099/00207713-50-4-1655.
786 58. Cummins CA, McInerney JO. 2011 A method for inferring the rate of evolution of homolo-
787 gous characters that can potentially improve phylogenetic inference, resolve deep divergence
788 and correct systematic biases. Syst. Biol. 60, 833–844. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syr064.
789 59. Rodri´guez-Ezpeleta N, Brinkmann H, Roure B, Lartillot N, Lang BF, Philippe H. 2007
790 Detecting and overcoming systematic errors in genome-scale phylogenies. Syst. Biol. 56,
791 389–399. doi: 10.1080/10635150701397643.
792 60. Theobald FV. 1907 A monograph of the Culicidae or mosquitoes. Vol. 4. British Museum
793 (Natural History).
794 61. Christophers S. 1915 The male genetalia of Anopheles. Indian Journal of Medical Research
795 3, 371–394.
796 62. Edwards F. 1921 A revision of the mosquitos [sic] of the Palaearctic Region. Bull. Entomol.
797 Res. 12, 263–351. doi: 10.1017/S0007485300040207.
798 63. Root F. 1923 The male genitalia of some American Anopheles mosquitoes. Am. J. Hyg. 3,
799 264–279.
800 64. Edwards F. 1932 Genera Insectorum. Diptera, Fam. Culicidae. Vol. Fascicle 194. Desmet-
801 Verteneuil, Brussels.
26
65. Antunes P. 1937 A new Anopheles and a new Goeldia from Colombia (Dipt. Culic.). Bull.
Entomol. Res. 28, 69–73. doi: 10.1017/S000748530003830X.
66. Komp W. 1937 The species of the subgenus Kerteszia of Anopheles (Diptera, Culicidae).
Ann. Entomol. Soc. Am. 30, 492–529. doi: 10.1093/aesa/30.3.492.
67. Harbach RE. 2013 The phylogeny and classification of Anopheles. In: Anopheles mosquitoes
: new insights into malaria vectors. Ed. by Manguin S. Rijeka: Intech, pp. 3–55. doi:
10.5772/54695.
68. Kjer KM, Simon C, Yavorskaya M, Beutel RG. 2016 Progress, pitfalls and parallel universes:
a history of insect phylogenetics. J. R. Soc. Interface 13, 20160363. doi: 10.1098/rsif.
2016.0363.
69. Li H, Shao R, Song N, Song F, Jiang P, Li Z, Cai W. 2015 Higher-level phylogeny of
paraneopteran insects inferred from mitochondrial genome sequences. Scient. Rep. 5, 8527.
doi: 10.1038/srep08527.
70. Talavera G, Vila R. 2011 What is the phylogenetic signal limit from mitogenomes? The
reconciliation between mitochondrial and nuclear data in the Insecta class phylogeny. BMC
Evol. Biol. 11, 315. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-11-315.
71. Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 1998 Phylogeny and classification of the Culicidae (Diptera).
Syst. Entomol. 23, 327–370. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-3113.1998.00072.x.
72. Misof B, Liu S, Meusemann K, Peters RS, Donath A, Mayer C, Frandsen PB, Ware J,
et al. 2014 Phylogenomics resolves the timing and pattern of insect evolution. Science 346,
763–767. doi: 10.1126/science.1257570.
73. Peters RS, Krogmann L, Mayer C, Donath A, Gunkel S, Meusemann K, Kozlov A, Podsiad-
lowski L, et al. 2017 Evolutionary History of the Hymenoptera. Curr. Biol. 27, 1013–1018.
doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.01.027.
74. Branstetter MG, Danforth BN, Pitts JP, Faircloth BC, Ward PS, Buffington ML, Gates
MW, Kula RR, et al. 2017 Phylogenomic insights into the evolution of stinging wasps and
the origins of ants and bees. Curr. Biol. 27, 1019–1025. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.03.027.
75. Vences M, Guayasamin JM, Miralles A, De La Riva I. 2013 To name or not to name: Criteria
to promote economy of change in Linnaean classification schemes. Zootaxa 3636, 201–244.
doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.3636.2.1.
76. Ward P, Brady S, Fisher B, Schultz T. 2016 Phylogenetic classifications are informative,
stable, and pragmatic: the case for monophyletic taxa. Insect. Soc. 63, 489–492. doi: 10.
1007/s00040-016-0516-9.
77. Wiley EO, Lieberman BS. 2011 Phylogenetics: theory and practice of phylogenetic system-
atics. John Wiley &amp; Sons.
78. Wilkerson RC, Linton Y.-M, Fonseca DM, Schultz TR, Price DC, Strickman DA. 2015
Making Mosquito Taxonomy Useful: A Stable Classification of Tribe Aedini that Balances
Utility with Current Knowledge of Evolutionary Relationships. PLOS ONE 10. Ed. by Liu
Z.-J, e0133602. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133602. url: https://doi.org/10.1371/
journal.pone.0133602.
79. Reinert JF, Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 2009 Phylogeny and classification of tribe Aedini
(Diptera: Culicidae). Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 157, 700–794. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-3642.2009.
00570.x.
27
845 80. Bourke BP, Foster PG, Bergo ES, Calado DC, Sallum MAM. 2010 Phylogenetic relation-
846 ships among species of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus)(Diptera, Culicidae) based on nuclear and
847 mitochondrial gene sequences. Acta tropica 114, 88–96. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.
848 2010.01.009.
849 81. Peyton E, Wilkerson RC, Harbach RE. 1992 Comparative analysis of the subgenera Kerteszia
850 and Nyssorhynchus of Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae). Mosq. Syst. 24, 51–69.
851 82. Faran M. 1980 Mosquito studies (Diptera: Culicidae) XXXIV. A revision of the Albimanus
852 Section of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus of Anopheles. Contrib. Am. Entomol. Inst.
853 83. Linthicum K. 1988 A revision of the Argyritarsis section of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus of
854 Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae). Mosq. Syst. 20, 98–271.
855 84. Root F. 1927 Studies on Brazilian mosquitoes. IV. Notes on some Brazilian species of
856 Anopheles. Am. J. Hyg. 7, 599–605.
857 85. Galvão A. 1941 Contribuição ao conhecimento das espécies de Myzorhynchella (Diptera:
858 Culicidae). Arch Zool S Paulo 2, 505–576.
859 86. Bourke BP, Nagaki SS, Bergo ES, Cardoso JdC, Sallum MAM. 2011 Molecular phylogeny
860 of the Myzorhynchella Section of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus)(Diptera: Culicidae): genetic
861 support for recently described and resurrected species. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 106, 705–
862 715. doi: 10.1590/S0074-02762011000600010.
863 87. Forattini O, Sallum MAM, Bergo E, Flores D. 1998 Ultrastructure of eggs of Anopheles ron-
864 doni, Anopheles lutzii and Anopheles parvus, three species of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus.
865 J. Am. Mosq. Control Assoc. 14, 256–65.
866 88. Howard LO, Dyar HG, Knab F. 1917 The mosquitoes of North and Central America and
867 the West Indies. Part II. Vol. 4. Carnegie Institution, Washington DC.
868 89. Christophers S. 1924 Provisional list and reference catalogue of the Anophelini. Indian J.
869 Med. Res.
870 90. Lane J. 1953 Neotropical Culicidae. Vol. 2. São Paulo, Brazil: University of São Paulo.
28
Phylogeny of Anophelinae using
mitochondrial protein coding genes
Peter G. Foster1 , Tatiane Marques Porangaba de Oliveira2 , Eduardo S. Bergo3 , Jan E. Conn4 ,
Denise Cristina Sant’Ana2 , Sandra Sayuri Nakagi2 , Silvio Nihei5 , Carlos Einicker Lamas6 , Chris-
tian González7 , Caio Cesar Moreira2 , and Maria Anice Mureb Sallum2
1
Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum, London, United Kingdom
2
Departamento de Epidemiologia, Faculdade de Saude Publica, Universidade de São Paulo, CEP
01246-904 São Paulo, SP, Brazil
3
Superintendencia de Controle de Endemias, Secretaria de Estado da Saude de São Paulo, SP,
Brazil
4
Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York, USA; Depart-
ment of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health, State University of New York-Albany,
Albany, NY, USA
5
Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, CEP 05508-900, São Paulo, SP, Brazil
6
Museu de Zoologia, Universidade de São Paulo, CEP 04263-000, São Paulo, SP, Brazil
7
Instituto de Entomología, Universidad Metropolitana de Ciencias de la Educación, Santiago,
Chile
Subject Areas: taxonomy and systematics
Keywords: Anopheles, mitochondrial genomes, phylogenetics
Author for correspondence: Peter G. Foster, email:p.foster@nhm.ac.uk
Abstract
Malaria is a vector-borne disease that is a great burden on the poorest and most marginalized
communities of the tropical and subtropical world. Approximately 41 species of Anopheline
mosquitoes can effectively spread species of Plasmodium parasites that cause human malaria.
Proposing a natural classification for the subfamily Anophelinae has been a continuous effort,
addressed using both morphology and DNA sequence data. The monophyly of the genus Anophe-
les, and phylogenetic placement of the genus Bironella, subgenera Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia,
and Stethomyia within the subfamily Anophelinae, remain in question. To understand the clas-
sification of Anophelinae we inferred the phylogeny of all three genera (Anopheles, Bironella,
Chagasia) and major subgenera by analyzing the amino acid sequences of the 13 protein coding
genes of 150 newly-sequenced mitochondrial genomes of Anophelinae and 18 newly-sequenced
Culex species as outgroup taxa, supplemented with 23 mitogenomes from GenBank.
Our analyses generally place genus Bironella within the genus Anopheles, which implies that
the latter as it is currently defined is not monophyletic. With some inconsistencies, Bironella
38 was placed within the major clade that includes Anopheles, Cellia, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia,
39 Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia, which were found to be monophyletic groups within Anopheli-
40 nae. Our findings provided robust evidence for elevating the monophyletic groupings Kerteszia,
41 Lophopodomyia, Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia to genus level; genus Anopheles to include sub-
42 genera Anopheles, Baimaia, Cellia and Christya; Anopheles parvus to be placed into a new
43 genus; Nyssorhynchus to be elevated to genus level; the genus Nyssorhynchus to include sub-
44 genera Myzorhynchella and Nyssorhynchus; Anopheles atacamensis and Anopheles pictipennis
45 to be transferred from subgenus Nyssorhynchus to subgenus Myzorhynchella; and subgenus Nys-
46 sorhynchus to encompass the remaining species of Argyritarsis and Albimanus Sections.
47 Introduction
48 Malaria transmission is endemic in 99 countries and territories of tropical and subtropical areas
49 of the world. Globally, approximately 3 billion people are at risk of becoming infected with
50 Plasmodium parasites. The risk is variable, with some regions at high risk, whereas other areas
51 are progressing towards elimination of malaria, or have succeeded in eliminating it [1, 2]. In
52 2013, about 198 million cases of malaria occurred worldwide (estimates ranged from 124 to
53 283 million), with approximately 584,000 deaths (estimates ranged from 367,000 to 755,000),
54 accounting for 78% of all deaths in children aged under 5 years. Even considering the uncertainties
55 in the latest estimates of cases and deaths, malaria is a huge burden on the poorest and most
56 marginalized communities living in endemic countries [3]. In the Americas there were 389,390
57 malaria cases in 2014. Brazil accounted for 36.8% of these, followed by the Bolivarian Republic
58 of Venezuela with 23.3%, and Peru with 16.6%. These three countries together accounted for
59 76.7% of malaria cases in 2014, however, the highest annual parasite index (API) per 1,000
60 thousand people was registered in Suriname (17.4), Guyana (16.5), and Venezuela (15.3) [4]. In
61 2015, Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela accounted for 30%, Brazil 24%, Peru 19%, and Colombia
62 (10%) of estimated malaria cases [3]. The numbers of cases have increased because of economic
63 conditions, mining activities, and decreased vector control strategies. For instance, Venezuela
64 reported more cases in 2014 than in any year in the previous 50 years [4].
65 Approximately 41 species of the genus Anopheles (subfamily Anophelinae) can effectively trans-
66 mit six species of the genus Plasmodium, P. falciparum (Welch), P. vivax Grassi & Feletti, P.
67 malariae Feletti & Grassi, P. ovale curtisi Sutherland et al., P. ovale wallikeri Sutherland et al.
68 and P. knowlesi Sinton and Mulligan, from an infected to a susceptible person [5]. Anopheles
69 mosquitoes also transmit the filarial parasite Wuchereria bancrofti Cobbold, and Brugia malayi
70 Brug, as well as various arboviruses, to humans [6].
71 Mosquitoes belong to Culicidae, a nematocerous family of Diptera. They are subdivided into
72 two subfamilies, Culicinae and Anophelinae. Culicinae is distributed worldwide and has 3, 067
73 species in 38 genera, including Aedes and Culex. Anophelinae has a cosmopolitan distribution
74 with 485 formally recognized species and several unnamed members of species complexes that
75 have not been formally described (WRBU 2016, http://wrbu.org/VecID_MQ.html). The cur-
76 rent scheme of classification of the Anophelinae subdivides it into three genera, Anopheles (472
77 species in addition to several unnamed members of species complexes, cosmopolitan), Bironella
78 (8 species, Australasian), and Chagasia (5 species, Neotropical).
79 The genus Anopheles has eight subgenera and various informal groups as sections, series,
80 groups, and subgroups (Table 1), which were defined based on morphological traits of adults,
81 fourth-instar larva, and pupa [7, 8]. Most of the sections, series, groups, and subgroups are
82 based on non-monophyletic groups [see figures 4–6 in 8]. The genus Bironella is subdivided
83 into three subgenera, Bironella, Brugella and Neobironella [9], and Chagasia has no subgeneric
2
classification [10].
Despite several efforts, a stable classification for the subfamily Anophelinae remains elusive.
For example, relationships among the genera Anopheles, Bironella, and Chagasia were addressed
using both morphological traits [8, 11, 12] and DNA sequence data [13, 14]. However, both mor-
phology and molecular data failed to yield a unified consensus of the relationships among these
genera. Relationships remain unresolved with contradictory hypotheses regarding the mono-
phyly of the genus Anopheles and the placement of Bironella within the subfamily [8, 13–15].
The genus Bironella was found either within the genus Anopheles as the sister group of the
subgenus Stethomyia [11] or outside the genus Anopheles [14]. Recently, Harbach and Kitching
[8] found Bironella clustered with species of Anopheles, without considering the possibility of
the former being a subgenus of the latter. Both morphology [8, 11] and DNA sequences [13, 14]
confirmed Chagasia to be a sister group to the clade composed of Anopheles and Bironella within
Anophelinae. In contrast, monophyly of the genus Anopheles is subject to a certain degree of
taxonomic instability. For instance, Krzywinski, Wilkerson, and Besansky [16] corroborated the
monophyly of the genus Anopheles as well as of the nominal subgenus Anopheles, using DNA
sequences of two protein-coding nuclear genes (white and G6PD), one protein-coding mitochon-
drial gene (ND5) and the D2 region of the ribosomal gene. Additionally, when the white gene
DNA sequences were analyzed separately, Bironella was the sister taxon of Anopheles. However,
Sallum, Schultz, and Wilkerson [11], Sallum et al. [13], and Collucci and Sallum [17] found the
genus Anopheles paraphyletic relative to Bironella. In addition, Harbach and Kitching [8, 12]
proposed two new subgenera (Baimaia and Christya) within Anopheles, but maintained Bironella
as a valid genus even though Bironella and the subgenera Stethomyia and Baimaia had been
placed nested within the subgenus Anopheles.
Currently, the genus Anopheles is subdivided into eight subgenera (Table 1). The subgenus
Anopheles, being cosmopolitan, has the largest geographical distribution; Cellia occurs in the
Afrotropical, Australasian and Oriental regions; Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, Stethomyia and Nys-
sorhynchus are restricted to the neotropics, with Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) albimanus reaching
southern parts of the Nearctic. Little information exists concerning the distributions of subgenera
Baimaia and Christya, proposed by Harbach and Kitching [8, 12]. The former occurs in limited
areas of Southeast Asia and was nominated to include a unique species that uses crabholes as
larval habitat [18]. The subgenus Christya occurs in the sub-Sahara [8], and includes two sylvatic
species, Anopheles implexus (Theobald) and Anopheles okuensis Brunhes, Le Goff and Geoffroy.
Phylogenetic relationships among subgenera of the genus Anopheles remain unresolved. Foley
et al. [19], Sallum, Schultz, and Wilkerson [11] and Freitas et al. [15] found some indication
that the subgenus Anopheles is paraphyletic. Collucci and Sallum [17] used 111 morphological
characters and 36 species of Anopheles (Anopheles) with 5 outgroup taxa, and showed that
Anopheles (Anopheles) was a monophyletic group and that Bironella was a sister lineage. In
addition, Krzywinski, Wilkerson, and Besansky [20], based on the results of phylogenetic analysis
of the DNA sequences of the white gene, found evidence supporting monophyly of the subgenus
Anopheles, a sister taxa relationship of subgenera Nyssorhynchus and Kerteszia, and monophyly
of a group composed of Cellia and Anopheles. Furthermore, the subgenus Lophopodomyia was
found as sister taxon to the clade formed of Nyssorhynchus and Kerteszia, whereas the subgenus
Stethomyia was placed outside the clade composed of other Anopheles subgenera. Results of a
phylogenetic analysis carried out for 12 species of Anopheles (Kerteszia) confirmed the monophyly
of the subgenus Kerteszia, and the close relationship between Nyssorhynchus and Kerteszia [21].
Foster et al. [22] looked at relationships within Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus), and noted that
recovery of known higher-level relationships benefited from more sequence data, and by ex-
trapolation proposed using complete mitochondrial genomes for such problems in future. The
mitochondrial genome is a rich source of information and has been used in several studies [23–27].
3
Table 1: Present scheme of internal classification of the subfamily Anophelinae (genus, subgenus and series), type species and number
of species in each subgenus
Number of
Genus Subgenus Section Series Type species species
Anopheles Anopheles Anopheles maculipennis Meigen 183
Angusticorn Anopheles
Cycloleppteron
Lophoscelomyia
Laticorn Arribalzagia
Myzorhynchus
Baimaia Anopheles kyondawensis Abraham 1
Cellia Anopheles pharoensis Theobald 224
Cellia
Myzomyia
Neocellia
Neomyzomyia
Paramyzomyia
Pyretophorus
Christya Anopheles implexus (Theobald) 2
Kerteszia Anopheles boliviensis (Theobald) 12
Lophopodomyia Anopheles squamifemur Antunes 6
Nyssorhynchus Anopheles argyritarsis Robineau Desvoidy 39
Albimanus Albimanus
Oswaldoi
Argyritarsis Albitarsis
Argyritarsis
Myzorhynchella
Stethomyia Anopheles nimbus Theobald 5
Bironella Bironella Bironella gracilis Theobald 2
Brugella Bironella travestita (Brug) 3
Neobironella Bironella confusa Bonne-Wepster 3
Chagasia Chagasia neivae Cruz 5
4
Analysis of complete mitochondrial genomes of Anopheles species has provided new evidence for
species complexes and a new understanding of the phylogenetic relationships among them [27–
31]. Similarly, promising results have been obtained for the classification of the Culex coronator
species complex [26]. It is remarkable that results of phylogenetic analyses, which included the
mitochondrial genomes of 12 species of the lepidopteran superfamily Noctuoidea, found robust
support for the monophyly of each noctuoid family [32]. It is appreciated that using complete
mitochondrial genomes in phylogenetics can be problematic [24], but here the authors suggest
that if gene order rearrangements, nucleotide frequency, and strand bias do not vary greatly
among taxa then mitochondrial genomes still have value.
Compositional bias in DNA sequences can distort the results of phylogenetic analysis, so
analysis using the protein sequences derived from DNA sequences of protein-coding genes are
often preferred. DNA sequences suffer from saturation more than protein sequences, partly
because there are fewer character states in DNA sequences than in protein. In addition, because
selection acts directly on protein sequences, but indirectly on DNA sequences, the proteins
evolve more slowly than DNA. Saturation and biases such as compositional heterogeneity tend
to manifest most strongly in rapidly evolving sequences, and so DNA tends to be more biased
than amino acids [33–35]. In the present study we used the protein sequences of mitochondrial
genomes.
In this study, family-level and genus-level relationships were inferred using phylogenomic anal-
yses of the amino acid sequences of the 13 protein coding genes of the 168 newly-sequenced
mitochondrial genomes of Anophelinae and Culex species, supplemented with 23 RefSeq mi-
togenomes from GenBank, in order: (1) to address the monophyly of family Culicidae, and
subfamilies Anophelinae and Culicinae; (2) to define the phylogenetic position of Bironella and
Chagasia within the subfamily; (3) to establish major monophyletic groups within Anophelinae;
(4) to verify the monophyly of the subgenera Anopheles, Cellia, Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, Nys-
sorhynchus, and Stethomyia; and (5) to test the current classification of the subfamily Anophe-
linae. In this study we provide evidence that supports an alternative hypothesis for the classifi-
cation of Anophelinae based on monophyly of inferred groups drawn from mitogenomic data.
Materials and methods
Taxon sampling
In the study, representatives of all three current genera of Anophelinae and six subgenera of
the genus Anopheles were included in the ingroup. The species sampled for this study and
the sources of specimens are listed in Supplementary Table S1; the current classification of the
species is in Table 2. Larvae and pupae were either collected from field habitats or obtained
from link-reared offspring of blood fed females collected in the field. Both larvae and pupae were
maintained in the laboratory to obtain adult males and females associated with larval and pupal
exuviae. Freshly emerged mosquitoes were quickly anesthetized with ethyl acetate, and either
kept separate in minute plastic vials in silica gel or individually frozen at -80°C. One individual
of Anopheles atacamensis was collected as an adult male in the Atacama Desert, Chile. An entire
fourth-instar larva of Bironella hollandi was employed for the study. Species identifications were
based on either adult male genitalia or fourth-instar larval morphological features. For some taxa
identification was also based on the external morphology of the eggs observed in a Jeol JSM-6460
scanning electron microscope (SEM, Jeol Ltd., Akishima, Japan) as described by Sallum et al.
[36] and Nagaki, Motta, and Sallum [37].
5
Table 2: List of species of the genus Anopheles employed in the
present study according to current classification. Mitochon-
drial genome sequences of species of the subgenus Cellia and
Anopheles quadrimaculatus were obtained from GenBank,
and the rest were newly sequenced in this study.
Subgenus Section Series Specific epithet
Anopheles Angusticorn Anopheles quadrimaculatus
eiseni geometricus
Laticorn Arribalzagia costai
near costai
fluminensis
forattinii
intermedius
minor
peryassui
Cellia Neomyzomyia cracens
farauti 4
hinesorum
Pyretophorus gambiae
Kerteszia cruzii
bellator
homunculus
leneanus
Lophopodomyia gilesi
pseudotibiamaculatus
Nyssorhynchus Albimanus Oswaldoi evansae
noroestensis a
galvaoi
konderi A
konderi B
konderi C
oswaldoi
oswaldoi A
oswaldoi SPForm
rangeli
dunhami
goeldii
nuneztovari A
albertoi
arthuri
arthuri B
arthuri C
arthuri D
rondoni
strodei
striatus
benarrochi
triannulatus
Argyritarsis Albitarsis albitarsis
albitarsis H
deaneorum
marajoara
oryzalimnetes
braziliensis
near braziliensis
Argyritarsis argyritarsis
sawyeri
darlingi
paulistensis b
lanei
atacamensis
Myzorhynchella antunesi
guarani
lutzii
lutzii A
lutzii B
parvus
pristinus
Stethomyia kompi
nimbus
a
Anopheles noroestensis is currently in synonymy with Anopheles evansae.
Specimens employed in the current study are from the type locality.
b
Anopheles paulistensis is currently in synonymy with Anopheles darlingi.
6 Specimens employed in the current study are from the type locality.
Genomic DNA isolation
DNA was extracted from each specimen individually following the animal tissue DNA extraction
protocol provided by the QIAgen DNeasy® Blood and Tissue Kit (QIAgen Ltd, Crawley, UK).
DNA was eluted to a volume of 200 L with Buffer AE (10 mM Tris·Cl; 0.5 mM EDTA; pH
9.0) and stored at -80°C as part of the frozen entomological collection of the Faculdade de
Saúde Pública, Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil. Genomic DNA extracts were used for PCR
amplifications.
PCR amplification and sequencing
Mitochondrial genomes of Anophelinae and Culex species were amplified either in a single
long-range PCR or 2 overlapping long PCR fragments using GoTaq® Long PCR Master Mix
(Promega, Wisconsin, USA). The PCR primers employed were conserved either across all arthro-
pods or designed from Anopheles sequences (Table S3). The remaining portions of the mitochon-
drial genome were amplified with several primers designed for specific regions based on alignments
of newly sequenced Anopheles DNA sequences and used for internal PCRs (Table S3). The posi-
tion of the primers in the mitochondrial genome is in Figure 1. The primer pairs HPK16Saa and
HPK16Sbb were employed to amplify approximately 15,300 base pairs (bp), whereas the primer
pairs LCO1490-16Sa amplified approximately 12,000 bp and HCO2198-16Sb approximately 4,800
bp. Because PCR success varied between specimens, the amplification strategy varied according
to species and specimen; for details of full amplification strategy, primers employed for varied
PCRs, and thermal cycling conditions see Table S4.
The long-range PCR amplicons were purified using DNA Clean & ConcentradorT M (Zymo
Research, California, USA) and quantified using the Qubit 2.0 fluorometer (LifeTechnologies,
Oregon, USA). Certain regions of the mitochondrial genome were amplified by PCR using Plat-
inum® Taq DNA polymerase (Invitrogen, California, USA), and a series of primers designed for
specific portions of the genome (Table S3). The PCR amplicons were purified by PEG precipi-
tation (20% polyethylene glycol 8000/2.5 M NaCl).
Nextera DNA sample preparation and Illumina sequencing
Next-Generation Sequencing and Sanger sequencing were employed to obtain DNA sequences
from 168 individuals of both Anophelinae and Culex species (Table S4). Long PCR products
were employed to obtain barcode libraries using Nextera® XT DNA Sample Preparation Kit,
Illumina, Illinois, USA, and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform with paired-end 250 base
pairs chemistry.
Sanger DNA sequencing
For some specimens, it was problematic to obtain the entire mitochondrial DNA using Illumina
sequencing technology only. Consequently, we obtained small fragments of certain portions
of the mitochondrial genome to complete the circular DNA molecule. In these situations, we
amplified the target DNA using primers that were developed for specific regions (Table S5).
PCR products were electrophoresed in 1.0% TBE agarose gels stained with GelRed Nucleic Acid
Gel Stain (Biotium Inc., Hayward, USA). Sanger sequencing reactions [38] were carried out in
one direction using ABI Big Dye Terminator Kit v.3.1 (PE Applied Biosystems, Warrington,
England). Sequencing reactions were purified in Sephadex G50® columns (GE Healthcare),
analyzed on an ABI Prism 3130 - Avant Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems, Foster City,
CA, USA.), and edited using Sequencher® for Windows version 5.1. Sanger DNA fragments
7
Figure 1: Scheme of amplifications performed in this study. Blue bars show amplified fragments
sequenced by Illumina technology, while remaining colors show Sanger-sequenced frag-
ments. A and B represent the two methods of amplification of the mitochondrial
genome used in this study. In both A and B, the complete mitochondrial DNA was
amplified in two steps. In A, fragments of about 15.058 kbp and about 655 bp were
amplified and sequenced. In B the fragments about 11.857 kbp and about 4.785 kbp
were amplified and sequenced in both directions using the same set of primers em-
ployed for PCR amplification. C represents the problematic regions after assembly of
the mitochondrial genome. Some samples showed low coverage in these regions (green
and orange) and then new amplifications and sequencing were carried out to complete
the genome sequence. The green region in Anopheles evansae and Anopheles eiseni
was amplified employing species specific primers F.
8
were assembled to the mitochondrial genome obtained using Illumina sequencing technology to
complete the circular molecule.
Sequence assembly and annotation
De novo assembly used MIRA v 4.9 [39] and IDBA-UD v 1.1.2 [40], aided by CAP3 [41] and
visualized using Tablet [42]. MIRA was also used for assembly by mapping against very similar
sequences, and for mapping with extension. Blastn [43] was used to identify artifactual sequence
repeats, which were excised, and for identifying overlapping ends for circularizing. Circularizing
some assemblies required bridging with Sanger sequences as mentioned above.
When the sequences had been circularized, annotation began with the MITOS website http:
//mitos.bioinf.uni-leipzig.de [44]. Sequences were then circularly permuted so that they
started with the trnI(gat) gene. Protein-coding genes were then checked with GeneWise (part of
the Wise2 package v 2.4 http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~birney/wise2) using an HMM model (HM-
MER v2, http://hmmer.org/) based on alignments of NCBI RefSeq mosquito mitochondrial
translations. Genbank format files were made using tbl2asn (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.
gov/genbank/tbl2asn2/), which were then read and manipulated using Biopython [45, http:
//biopython.org/] and p4 [46, http://p4.nhm.ac.uk]. Boundaries of all genes were further
checked by eye using alignments as a guide.
Phylogenetic analysis
The <U+03C7>2 test for compositional homogeneity used p4 [46, http://p4.nhm.ac.uk]. Alignments
were made using clustalo [47]. Alignments were masked for reliable sites using GBlocks [48]
with default settings except that parameter “Allowed Gap Positions” was set to half. Duplicate
sequences were removed before phylogenetic analysis, and restored with branch lengths of zero
for presentation. Phylogenetic analysis used Phylobayes-MPI v 1.5 [49], PAUP v4.0b10 [50],
Phyml v 20120412 [51], RAxML v 8.1.3 [52], and IQ-Tree v 1.5.4 [53–56]
Results
Newly-sequenced mitogenomes, compositional heterogeneity
We sequenced 168 mosquito mitogenomes, including 148 Anopheles, 1 Bironella, 1 Chagasia,
and 18 Culex. The mitochondrial genomes of five species of Anopheles were obtained from
GenBank (Table 2). There were 64 Anopheles species, 55 of which were sequenced for the first
time. Mitochondrial genomes of four species of Anopheles (Kerteszia) from the Atlantic Forest of
Brazil have been described in Oliveira et al. [27], including Anopheles bellator, Anopheles cruzii,
Anopheles homunculus and Anopheles laneanus. Demari-Silva et al. [26] described mitochondrial
genomes of four species: Culex coronator (2 specimens), Culex usquatus (1 specimen), Culex
camposi (1 specimen) and Culex usquatissimus (2 specimens), of the Coronator Group of Culex
(Culex). Other Culex (Culex) species newly sequenced and included in the analyses as outgroup
taxa were: Culex lygrus, Culex nigripalpus, Culex chidesteri, Culex mollis, Culex declarator,
Culex bidens, Culex brami, Culex dolosus CJForm, Culex bilineatus and Culex surinamensis.
Culex pipiens pipiens (NC_015079.1), Culex quinquefasciatus (NC_014574.1), Aedes notoscriptus
(NC_025473.1), Aedes aegypti (NC_010241.1) and Aedes albopictus (NC_006817.1) have been
previously sequenced and were obtained from GenBank. All the mitochondrial genomes had 37
genes, and all were in the same order and on the same strand (Table S7). The 168 genomes
9
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14
pairwise p-distance
Figure 2: P-distances between pairs of aligned, concatenated protein sequences, length 3735
aa. Empty bars show all p-distances except between pairs of sequences from the same
species (the smallest distance in this set is 0.0005, representing 2 differences over the
sequence pair), and filled bars show distances between taxa from different genera or
subgenera (the smallest distance in this set is 0.064, representing 238 differences over
the sequence pair).
261 ranged in size from 15322 to 16052 bp, with Anopheles from 15322 to 15739, Culex from 15568
262 to 16052, Bironella 15772, and Chagasia 15717.
263 The translations of the 13 protein-coding genes of the 150 newly-sequenced mitogenomes of
264 Anophelinae were similar, and after alignment GBlocks identified only one site to be masked.
265 The translations were aligned and then concatenated to make a supermatrix of length 3735 (after
266 masking the GBlocks site), and then compared to the corresponding DNA sequences (length
267 11205). A <U+03C7>2 test for compositional homogeneity did not show significant heterogeneity in the
268 amino acid sequences (X 2 = 138.8; dof = 2831; P = 1.0) but showed substantial heterogeneity
269 in the DNA (X 2 = 539.8; dof = 447; P = 0.0017). This test suffers from a high probability
270 of type-II error, and so although a better test may show compositional heterogeneity in the
271 translations, we can be sure that the DNA sequences are compositionally heterogeneous. This
272 favours using protein sequences in subsequent phylogenetic analyses. This amino acid alignment
273 had 772 parsimony informative sites (21% of the 3735 sites), while the corresponding DNA
274 alignment had 4418 parsimony informative sites (39% of the 11205 sites). Pairwise divergences
275 between sequences in the protein alignment were examined using p-distances (Figure 2), and
276 since we were interested in relationships between genera and subgenera the protein sequences
277 were deemed sufficiently diverged for our purpose.
278 Phylogenetic analyses
279 The results shown here address questions of relationships among genera in the Anophelinae and
280 relationships among subgenera in the genus Anopheles. All phylogenetic analyses were carried
281 out using the amino acid sequences of the protein coding genes of the 168 newly-sequenced
282 mitochondrial genomes, supplemented with 23 RefSeq mitogenomes from GenBank.
283 Phylogenetic analysis of the Culicidae using protein sequences from mitogenomes available in
10
GenBank with and without the new Bironella and Chagasia mitogenome sequences showed in
both cases that the root of the Culicidae (mosquitoes) was between the two subfamilies (Figure
S1). The rooting between the two subfamilies of the mosquitoes appears to be uncontradicted.
Bironella was clustered within Anopheles (0.73 PP; Figure S1), but with Kerteszia sister to the
clade composed of Bironella and Anopheles. The posterior probability for the branch leading to
the clade composed of Kerteszia with Bironella and Anopheles was 1.0 (Figure S1). Examination
of split supports that were not in the consensus tree shows that support for genus Anopheles
(excluding Bironella and Chagasia) is 0.26 PP.
Genus-level relationships in Anophelinae rooted by Culicidae
The current generic classification of the Anophelinae includes Chagasia, Bironella, and Anopheles,
and so we would expect to see them as separate groups. However, although Chagasia is sister to
the other groups, Bironella is nested within Anopheles (Table 3, Figures S2 – S7).
Table 3: Summary of analyses using Culex and Aedes as outgroup. Support values for Bironella
within Anopheles vs monophyletic genus Anopheles are shown. Support for “Bironella
within Anopheles” is defined here as the best supported split that separates Bironella
and some Anopheles taxa with the outgroup.
Bironella
with within monophyletic
RefSeq Model Anopheles Anopheles Figure
+ CAT-Poisson 0.86 0.07 S2
- CAT-Poisson 0.51 0.16 S3
+ CAT60-mtart 0.94 0.0 S4
- CAT60-mtart 0.82 < 0.01 S5
+ CAT-GTR 0.8 0.07 S6
- CAT-GTR 0.45 0.29 S7
+ CAT-GTR 0.67 0.07 S8
- CAT-GTR 0.52 0.19 S9
In order to see whether long branch effects were affecting the placement of Bironella, in analyses
shown in Figures S8 and S9 several of the longest branches (except Bironella itself) were removed.
However, the strongest support was found for Bironella within Anopheles, with little support for
monophyletic Anopheles, suggesting that long branch effects did not affect placement of Bironella
(Table 3, last two lines).
Genus-level relationships in Anophelinae rooted by Chagasia
It is evident in Figures S2 – S7 that Chagasia was the earliest branching genus in the Anophelinae,
and so we will use Chagasia as a valid root for the rest of the Anophelinae. The series of analyses
shown in Figures S10 – S19 and summarized in Table 4 were rooted by Chagasia, and used all
the new Anopheles sequences together with Bironella, both with and without the nine Anopheles
RefSeq sequences. Culex sequences were not used here to remove the possibility that the presence
of that outgroup could distort the ingroup relationships. In many cases there was stronger
support for Bironella within Anopheles than there was for monophyletic Anopheles (Table 4).
Results of the analyses using the CAT-GTR model was an exception that showed moderate (0.72,
0.71 BPP) support for Bironella with Chagasia (Figures S10 and S11); this is counter to the
11
311 CAT-GTR analyses rooted by Culex as shown in Figures S6 – S9, where support for monophyletic
312 genus Anopheles was low (0.07 – 0.265 BPP) with this model. Placement of Bironella was often
313 sister to Anopheles subgenera Cellia, Anopheles, and Nyssorhynchus (Figure 3) and this was
314 equivalent to support for Chagasia together with Anopheles subgenera Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia,
315 and Stethomyia (LKS, not including Bironella), which was highest with the CAT60-MtArt model
316 and lowest with CAT-GTR.
Chagasia
Lophopodomyia
Kerteszia
Stethomyia
Bironella
Anopheles
Cellia
Nyssorhynchus
Figure 3: Most analyses described in this study place Bironella within genus Anopheles.
317 Anophelinae with fast sites removed
318 In this set of analyses fewer Nyssorhynchus sequences were used, and we looked at fast site re-
319 moval to examine reliability of monophyletic Anopheles. The removal of fast sites was conducted
320 in two ways, neither of which uses a tree:
321 1. Using diversity, that is the number of different kinds of amino acid characters in a site
322 [57]. It is assumed that the higher the diversity the higher will be the site rate. Data were
323 prepared by discarding sites with a diversity higher than three, as well as constant sites,
324 leaving 793 of the original 1,128 sites.
325 2. Using TIGER software [58], which identifies fast sites using compatibility. TIGER bins
326 sites into 10 bins, and the sites in the fastest bin were removed, as well as constant sites,
327 leaving 774 of the original 1,128 sites.
328 The results (Table 5 and Figures S20 – S28) of the analyses using all sites (with fewer Nys-
329 sorhynchus) agreed with results of previously described analyses, where the CAT- GTR model
330 showed some small (47% and 50% in replicate analyses) support for monophyletic Anopheles,
331 and the JTT analyses with RAxML and Phyml showed little (28% and 4%) support for mono-
332 phyletic Anopheles. Using only the slow sites in the data can make the analysis more reliable,
333 because biases in the data that may cause a lack of model fit would generally manifest in the fast
334 sites and so their removal would be beneficial [58, 59]. When this was done (Table 5), support
335 for monophyletic Anopheles was eroded, which seems to argue that the high support for mono-
336 phyletic Anopheles by the CAT-GTR model was unreliable. Oddly, using JTT with RAxML
337 and Phyml, support for monophyletic Anopheles increased when fast sites were removed, which
338 appears to argue the opposite. However, there was still poor support (< 50%) for monophyletic
12
Table 4: Support for monophyletic genus Anopheles within Anophelinae, rooted by
Chagasia. LKS is Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, and Stethomyia, subgenera of
Anopheles
monophyletic Chagasia
Software model / method RefSeq Anopheles + LKS Figure
PB CAT-GTR + 0.72 0.20 S10
PB CAT-GTR - 0.71 0.12 S11
PB CAT60-MtArt + 0.01 0.905 S12
PB CAT60-MtArt - 0.0 0.90 S13
PB CAT-Poisson + 0.105 0.785 S14
PB CAT-Poisson - 0.045 0.84 S15
a
RAxML JTT+F, RAxML-CAT + 0.22 0.55 S16
RAxML JTT+F, RAxML-CAT - 0.31 0.39 S17
PAUP* maximum parsimony + 0.53 0.24 S18
PAUP* maximum parsimony - 0.56 0.21 S19
a Prottest was used for model choice for the RAxML analysis. Prottest recommended JTT+G+F
with an AICw of 1.0, and so that model was used, although for the RAxML rapid bootstrap the
RAxML-CAT ASRV (among-site rate variation) was used, with only the final optimization evaluated
with Gamma ASRV.
Anopheles after fast site stripping, and in spite of the ambiguity and contradictions, the tree
shown in Figure 3 appears to be the best summary.
Phylogenetic analysis with DNA sequences
While this study has focussed on amino acid data, for comparison DNA alignments correspond-
ing to the Anophelinae amino acid alignments including RefSeq sequences were prepared, and
analysed with a partitioned ML model, and with the CAT-GTR model of PhyloBayes (Fig-
ures S29 – S34). Results were broadly similar, with mostly well supported clades of Stethomyia,
Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, Anopheles, Cellia, and Nyssorhynchus. However, in contrast to the
phylogenies based on translations (generally as in Figure 3), support for backbone arrangements
of these groups was generally poor and inconsistent using DNA. Support for Bironella within
Anopheles was higher with the PhyloBayes CAT-GTR analyses, and lower for the ML analyses
(Table 6).
Results summary
1. With some inconsistencies, it is most likely that Bironella is placed within Anopheles
2. Placement of Lophopodomyia, Stethomyia, and the clade composed of Cellia with Anophe-
les, were not consistent in the analyses.
3. The current subgenera — Stethomyia, Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, Anopheles, and Cellia —
were consistently found to be monophyletic groups.
4. The subgenus Nyssorhynchus was unambiguously subdivided into two strongly supported
groups that were found in all analyses independent of the approach and model adopted.
13
Table 5: Summary of support values for monophyletic genus Anopheles using fast site stripping
monophyletic
sites n sites Program, model Anopheles Figure
all 1128 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.47 S20
all 1128 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.50 S21
all 1128 RAxML, PROTCATJTTF 0.28 S22
all 1128 Phyml, JTT+G+F 0.04 S23
slow only, by diversity 793 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.205 S24
slow only, by diversity 793 RAxML, PROTCATJTTF 0.31 S25
slow only, by diversity 793 Phyml, JTT+G+F 0.31 S26
slow only, by TIGER 774 Phylobayes, CAT-GTR 0.245 4
slow only, by TIGER 774 RAxML, PROTCATJTTF 0.48a S27
slow only, by TIGER 774 Phyml, JTT+G+F 0.33 S28
a Note that a consensus tree made from bootstraps of the RAxML analysis of TIGER sites shows
monophyletic Anopheles (with 48% bootstrap support) while the RAxML tree for the same analysis,
which had undergone more ML rearrangements, does not.
Table 6: Summary of support values for monophyletic genus Anopheles using DNA sequences
monophyletic
sites n sites n taxa Program, model Anopheles Figure
positions 1, 2, 3 11202 156 IQ-Tree, partitioned 0.80 S29
positions 1, 2 7468 156 IQ-Tree, partitioned 0.91 S30
positions 1, 2, 3 11202 156 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.76 S31
positions 1, 2 7468 156 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.40 S32
fewer taxa, positions 1, 2a 1727 61 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.25 S33
fewer taxa, positions 1, 2, slow sitesa 1244 60 PhyloBayes, CAT-GTR 0.43 S34
a Constant sites removed.
14
SP54 C Chagasia sp.
SP69 22 5 Anopheles kompi Stethomyia n
1.0
PA10 109 Anopheles nimbus Stethomyia n
VP11 Anopheles pseudotibiamaculatus Lophopodomyia n
1.0
GO54 101 Anopheles gilesi Lophopodomyia n
SP24 3 1 Anopheles bellator Kerteszia n
0.6
ST 19 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
1.0
RS30 158 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
1.0
BA22 32 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
BA22 31 Anopheles homunculus Kerteszia n
0.7 PEC 2 7 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
0.9
SP52 103 Anopheles laneanus Kerteszia n
1.0
1.0 BRSP52 17 Anopheles laneanus Kerteszia n
RJ03 2 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
0.7 ST16 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
1.0 RS32 11 7 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
1.0
NC 024740.1 Anopheles cruzii Kerteszia n
Bironella Bironella hollandi
MG07 9 20 Anopheles parvus Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
PR28 5 1 Anopheles parvus Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
MG56 2 4 Anopheles parvus Nyssorhynchus n
RJ20 6 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
MG25 4 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
1.0 MG150 5 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
MG115 7 Anopheles argyritarsis Nyssorhynchus n
0.7 CE17 14 100 Anopheles sawyeri Nyssorhynchus n
1.0 MG04 03 Anopheles sawyeri Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
MG41 14 Anopheles sawyeri Nyssorhynchus n
SP53 100 Anopheles pristinus Nyssorhynchus n
atacamensis Anopheles atacamensis Nyssorhynchus n
0.9
1.0 PR29 09 06 Anopheles guarani Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
PR29 08 8 Anopheles guarani Nyssorhynchus n
RS19 102 Anopheles lutzii A Nyssorhynchus n
0.9
0.6
SP02 15 5 Anopheles lutzii Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
0.6 SP02 10 5 Anopheles lutzii Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
RS16 109 Anopheles lutzii B Nyssorhynchus n
B369 Anopheles lutzii B Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
VP09 17 Anopheles antunesi Nyssorhynchus n
1.0
RJ03 11 Anopheles antunesi Nyssorhynchus n
NC 002084.1 Anopheles gambiae Cellia n
0.9
NC 020768.1 Anopheles cracens Cellia n
1.0
NC 020770.1 Anopheles farauti No. 4 Cellia n
1.0
NC 020769.1 Anopheles hinesorum Cellia n
NC 000875.1 Anopheles quadrimaculatus A Anopheles n
0.6
SP06 12 Anopheles e. geometricus Anopheles n
0.8 1.0
RJ04 2 Anopheles e. geometricus Anopheles n
0.8
RO14 100 Anopheles minor Anopheles n
1.0
ES26 101 Anopheles minor Anopheles n
1.0
RO38 2 Anopheles peryassui Anopheles n
1.0
1.0
PA12 7 6 Anopheles peryassui Anopheles n
1.0
AP21 28 2 Anopheles peryassui Anopheles n
SP02 1 1 Anopheles fluminensis Anopheles n
1.0
RJ04 1 Anopheles fluminensis Anopheles n
1.0 AP17 Anopheles intermedius Anopheles n
1.0
SP02 8 1 Anopheles intermedius Anopheles n
1.0 PNJ2 Anopheles forattinii Anopheles n
1.0 BA58 100 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
BA21 1 2 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
1.0
SP02 17 3 Anopheles near costai Anopheles n
1.0
Icapara1 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
0.1
BRSP57 1 Anopheles costai Anopheles n
Figure 4: Anophelinae with reduced taxa, rooted by Chagasia. Mitochondrial protein sequences,
slow sites only using TIGER, analysed with PhyloBayes using the CAT-GTR model.
15
359 The Nyssorhynchus was subdivided into two major monophyletic groups (BPP = 1.0) (Fig-
360 ures S10 – S15, S20, S21, S24, 4). One group was composed of Anopheles parvus and the
361 second group included the remaining species of the Myzorhynchella Section plus Anopheles
362 atacamensis of the Argyritarsis Section that was recovered as sister to the group (Anophe-
363 les argyritarsis plus Anopheles sawyeri). Monophyly of the Argyritarsis and Albimanus
364 Sections was not corroborated by any of the analysis and partition schemes.
365 Discussion
366 The systematic treatment of the Anophelinae has undergone extensive changes since Theobald
367 [60], who proposed several genera based on characteristics of abdominal and thoracic scales. Sub-
368 sequently, Christophers [61] named three genera based on characteristics of the male genitalia.
369 Later, Edwards [62] and Root [63] recognized the three genera — Anopheles, Myzomyia (equiva-
370 lent to Cellia) and Nyssorhynchus — as subgenera. Edwards [64] added Stethomyia as a subgenus
371 of Anopheles, with Kerteszia as an informal group within the subgenus Nyssorhynchus. Then, An-
372 tunes [65] proposed the Lophopodomyia subgenus, and Komp [66] elevated Kerteszia to subgenus
373 level. More recently, Harbach, Rattanarithikul, and Harrision [sic] [18] described the subgenus
374 Baimaia, and Harbach and Kitching [8] resurrected Christya from synonymy with Anopheles.
375 Currently, Anophelinae encompasses three genera, Anopheles, Bironella and Chagasia, with the
376 genus Anopheles encompassing eight subgenera, of which four — Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, Nys-
377 sorhynchus, and Stethomyia — are primarily limited to the Neotropical Region [Table 1, 8, 67].
378 The subdivision of the genus Anopheles into subgenera is based primarily on characters of the
379 male genitalia, especially the number and placement of setae in the gonocoxite, characteristics
380 of the ventral and dorsal claspette, aedeagus, proctiger, and the ninth segment [11]. The largest
381 subgenera in number of species are Anopheles, Cellia and Nyssorhynchus, and each subgenus is
382 subdivided into several informal groups, subgroups and complexes [8, 67].
383 Several previous studies have attempted to recover internal relationships among Anophelinae
384 genera and among the Anopheles subgenera using morphology [8, 11, 12, 21], nuclear and mito-
385 chondrial protein-coding genes [20, 22], mitochondrial and ribosomal genes, among others [13,
386 16], but the results have been unclear. That most studies were done with few taxa and few
387 genes are among the reasons for the unsettled results, and this motivated the use of complete
388 mitochondrial genomes and a wide taxon sampling in this study. Using mitochondrial genomes
389 has been considered a positive advance over previously-used molecular datasets for recovering
390 interfamily relationships and for increasing support for deep nodes in phylogenies of termites
391 [23]. However, it has also become evident that the mitochondrial genome may fail to recon-
392 struct deep phylogenetic relationships [25, 68]. Model choice can have a crucial role when using
393 mitochondrial genomes, as in the recent study of paraneopteran orders by Li et al. [69]. They
394 found big differences in substutition rates in different lineages, leading to apparent long branch
395 attraction using site-homogeneous empirical models, which however was ameliorated using the
396 site-heterogeneous CAT and CAT-GTR models as implemented in PhyloBayes. They also noted
397 extreme saturation, and that also appeared to be accommodated well by CAT and CAT-GTR.
398 They described the tree-heterogeneous composition of the DNA sequences, but they did not
399 prefer use of AA sequences (which would have decreased the tree-heterogeneous composition)
400 because using protein sequences decreased support for some groupings recovered by DNA se-
401 quences. However, a previous study using mitochondrial genomes for deep insect phylogenetics
402 by Talavera and Vila [70] recommended using amino acid sequences to avoid long branch attrac-
403 tion, in addition to use of the PhyloBayes CAT model. For example it was only by using amino
404 acid sequences with the CAT model that the Strepsiptera lineage was released from long branch
16
attraction to the Hymenoptera, allowing it to be placed as sister to Coleoptera in agreement
with current morphological and nuclear gene phylogenies. Although they had some success in
avoiding long branch attraction using the CAT model with amino acid data, going deeper they
were not able to recover super-order relationships reliably in insects.
In this study we noted that the DNA sequences of our mitochondrial genomes were heteroge-
neous in composition, while the amino acid translations were not, as measured using a <U+03C7>2 test
for compositional heterogeneity (see Results, paragraph 2), and this was a major reason for us
to use the amino acid sequences of the protein-coding genes. We mainly used the CAT-GTR
model in PhyloBayes, but we compared this model with others. We also used long-branch taxa
exclusion, fast site exclusion, and different outgroup rooting levels in order to test our results.
Although there were limitations of the mitochondrial genome for inferring deep branch relation-
ships within Anophelinae, the results of our phylogenetic analyses provided support for groups
that have been previously defined based on morphological differences and similarities [60, 64],
and results of cladistics analyses [8, 11, 12], among other taxonomic studies. An analysis rooted
using other nematocerous Diptera confirmed monophyly of the Culicinae family, and monophyly
of the Anophelinae and Culicinae subfamilies (Figure S1).
Our analysis of relationships in Anophelinae partly contradict the current scheme of clas-
sification proposed by Harbach and Kitching [8] at the genus and subgenus levels. There is
no contradiction regarding the phylogenetic systematization of the genus Chagasia as a mono-
phyletic group that is sister to the clade composed of Bironella and Anopheles genera within
Anophelinae. This is in agreement with other studies using either morphological characters [11,
71] or different sources of DNA sequence [13, 15, 16, 20]. However, the single representative of
the genus Bironella included in the study, Bironella hollandi, was found either within the genus
Anopheles or as its sister depending on the analytical approach adopted and data partitioning
schemes. Placement of Bironella nested within a more inclusive monophyletic group consisting
of species of the genus Anopheles does not seem to be attributable to long-branch attraction
(Table 3, Figures S8, S9, S24 – S28). Consequently, the current status of Bironella as a genus
within the Anophelinae and the monophyly of the genus Anopheles s.l. are arguable. The lim-
ited sampling of some groups such as Bironella (one species), Stethomyia and Lophopodomyia
(two species each, see below) may have contributed to the inconsistent deep relationships within
Anophelinae. Thus, in order to resolve the phylogenetic position of Bironella, one strategy would
be to use better taxon sampling; along with species from the other two Bironella subgenera —
Neobironella and Brugella — the taxon sample should also include Anopheles and Cellia species
from the Afrotropical, Indo-Malay, Australasian and Palearctic biodiversity regions. Another
strategy would be to use nuclear sequences of single-copy genes and transcriptomes to overcome
the problems that seem to be inherent in deep phylogenetics using mitogenomes [72–74].
Within Anophelinae, our estimated phylogenetic trees recovered relationships that are con-
gruent with those suggested in the current classification proposed by Harbach and Kitching
[8]. Species of the genus Anopheles consistently clustered into six major strongly supported
monophyletic groups, coincident with current named subgenera: Anopheles, Cellia, Kerteszia,
Lophopodomyia, Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia (Figures S1–S28). However, in our study phy-
logenetic relationships among Lophopodomyia, Kerteszia, and Stethomyia were unstable, varying
depending on the method and taxon sampling. There are two major sources of instability in
the classification of Anophelinae: (1) the genus Anopheles is likely not monophyletic because the
genus Bironella likely lies within it (Figures 3, S1); and (2) the current internal classification of
the subgenus Nyssorhynchus is primarily based on non-monophyletic lineages (Figures S2–S28).
Further, considering the presence of non-monopheletic groups within Anophelinae, we feel con-
fident in proposing a new scheme of classification for the subfamily, mainly focused on rear-
rangements of subgenera of the genus Anopheles (Table 7). Elevation of Neotropical subgenera
17
454 of Anopheles to genus level can be justified and supported if we consider that the primary aim
455 of any biological classification is the systematization of monophyletic supraspecific taxa, and
456 name them formally or demonstrate their presence in nature [75, 76]. Recently, Wilkerson et al.
457 [77] restored Aedini classification to a generic designation that has been applied worldwide by
458 medical entomologists. The main reasons for the decision, in the name of classification stabil-
459 ity, was the community consensus and hall of fame criteria that are important considerations for
460 Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus, among other medically important species of the genus Aedes.
461 In addition, Wilkerson and colleagues also reversed the classification summarized in Reinert et
462 al., 2009 [78] to allow taxonomists to accurately assign new species to a genus and to obtain
463 additional knowledge about strongly supported monophyletic groups of species that will orient
464 further nomenclature changes and taxon naming within Aedini.
465 The classification proposed herein is supported by results of phylogenetic studies and the
466 presence of natural groups that have been accepted by most medical entomologists. We find
467 support for our decision when we consider the Taxon Naming Criteria (TNC) suggested by
468 Vences et al. [75]. According to these authors, taxonomists should provide a universal and stable
469 system of classification for supraspecific taxa, and they proposed three major groups of criteria
470 — priority, secondary, and accessory, that should be considered prior to any decision about
471 naming monophyletic supraspecific taxa and consequent nomenclature changes. The priority
472 group includes: (1) mandatory monophyly of the taxon in an inferred species tree, (2) clade
473 stability derived from analyses that included various methods of tree inference, clade robustness,
474 corroborated by a distinct set of characters, and (3) phenotypic diagnosability. The secondary
475 and accessory groups include four criteria each, among them biogeography, manageability, hall
476 of fame, nomenclature stability, and community consensus.
477 In the current study, we invoke the priority recommendations of Vences et al. as unambiguous
478 support for elevating Neotropical Nyssorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia
479 subgenera to genus level. The monophyly of these taxa were always robust, independent of
480 the analytical phylogenetic approach, taxon sampling strategy, or source of data employed for
481 the analyses, such as morphology [11, 12, 17, 21], nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequence
482 data [13, 15, 16], and mitogenome data as shown in this study. In addition, Nyssorhynchus,
483 Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia can be easily distinguished from the clade composed
484 of Anopheles and Cellia based on autapomorphies of female and male genitalia or a set of
485 morphological characters that together can be employed to distinguish these taxa from other
486 Anophelinae genera [11, 12, 17, 21]. The secondary TNC criteria, such as time banding, adaptive
487 zone, hybrid viability of taxa, and biogeography, cannot be used because there is not enough
488 available information in the published literature.
489 The accessory TNC criteria include the manageability of a higher taxon that should contain
490 a number of lower taxa manageable for the human mind, avoiding oversplitting and creating
491 monotypic groups. Thus, the criteria of manageability provide extra strength to elevate Nys-
492 sorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia monophyletic lineages to genus level.
493 These Neotropical taxa contain few (a “manageable” number) of species, and each of them can
494 be recognized by their morphological distinctiveness from other Anophelinae genera. The genus
495 Anopheles (410 species, Table 1) that encompasses the species-rich subgenera Cellia (224 species)
496 and Anopheles (183 species) is more problematic in terms of manageability and morphological
497 diagnosability because they are not phenotypically homogeneous [11, 12, 17, 21]. Characters of
498 the male genitalia, whose homology has not been clearly defined, can distinguish these genera.
499 As argued by Vences and colleagues, over-splitting a supraspecific taxon is a way to favor the
500 principle of stability. However, this extreme situation should be avoided because it would have
501 an undesirable impact on the evolutionary classification of organisms. The hall of fame acces-
502 sory taxon naming criterion that urges taxonomists to consider the economy of change when
18
proposing reclassification of organisms justifies our decision for not splitting the monophyletic
clade composed of Anopheles and Cellia into smaller monophyletic subunits. The major reason
for not splitting is that both the phylogeny and the phenotypic diagnosability are incomplete for
these subgenera and thus require further study. On the other hand, the highly stable monophyly
of the Neotropical Nyssorhynchus, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia subgenera justify
elevating them to genus level.
Taking all the results together, we challenge the current classification of Anophelinae by propos-
ing a revision at the genus and subgenus ranks that is consistent with our interpretation of the
phylogenetic trees. Our revision preserves the six monophyletic groups that were recovered
regardless of the analytical approaches adopted in the study. These are the six subgenera of
Anopheles, the monophyly of which has been previously corroborated by morphology [8, 11, 12],
and nuclear gene data sets [13, 15, 16, 20, 22, 79]. Accordingly, the subgenera Nyssorhynchus,
Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and Stethomyia are elevated to genus rank, and the genus Anophe-
les will include the subgenera Anopheles, Baimaia, Christya, and Cellia (Table 7). Therefore,
species assigned originally to a particular subgenus will be moved from the genus Anopheles to
their respective newly proposed genus.
Focusing on the Nyssohynchus clade, we propose adjustments in the current classification. The
Nyssorhynchus clade is composed of two major monophyletic sister groups (Figures S1–S28).
One group includes specimens of Anopheles parvus from the Myzorhynchella Section [80], and
the second group is composed of remaining species assigned originally to the Albimanus [81],
Argyritarsis [82] and Myzorhynchella [80] Sections of Nyssorhynchus (Figures S2–S28). Although
Anopheles parvus had been placed in the Myzorhynchella Section on the basis of morphological
similarities with other species of the section [83, 84], Bourke et al. [85], in a phylogenetic analysis
of the Myzorhynchella Section employing DNA sequences of the nuclear white gene, showed that
Anopheles parvus is placed outside a more inclusive group consisting of most Myzorhynchella
species. Then, Foster et al. [22] proposed that the species should be placed into a separate
subgenus of Anopheles because Anopheles parvus is phenotypically distinguishable by unique
morphological features in the egg [86] and male genitalia [83, 84] in addition to the large K2P
COI barcode distances compared to other Nyssorhynchus species. Our results here show that the
Myzorhynchella Section [80] is not a monophyletic group because Anopheles parvus is consistently
placed as a sister group to all the other Nyssorhynchus, separate from the other Myzorhynchella.
In addition, Anopheles atacamensis of the Argyritarsis Section nests within the Myzorhynchella
Section (See Table 2, which lists the other members of the Myzorhynchella Section in the current
classification). The Myzorhynchella were described as a genus of Anophelinae by Theobald [60]
to include Myzorhynchella nigra Theobald. Then, the genus Myzorhynchella was synonomyzed
with Anopheles by Howard, Dyar, and Knab [87], and redefined as a species group within the
subgenus Nyssorhynchus by Christophers [88]. Later, Galvão [84] elevated Myzorhynchella to
subgenus rank, which was accepted by Lane [89]. More recently, Peyton, Wilkerson, and Harbach
[80] redefined Myzorhynchella as a section of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus. Considering that the
type species of the Myzorhynchella is Anopheles nigra currently in synonomy with Anopheles
lutzii Cruz, the name Myzorhynchella is preserved to be the clade that contains Anopheles lutzii.
Elevating the Myzorhynchella to a subgenus of the genus Nyssorhynchus implies that it will
encompasses Anopheles antunesi, Anopheles atacamensis, Anopheles guarani, Anopheles lutzii,
Anopheles nigritarsis, Anopheles pictipennis, and Anopheles pristinus. Consequently, Anopheles
parvus will be placed into a new genus, as yet unnamed, that will be described in a further
study. The second major monophyletic group of the Nyssorhynchus clade includes Anopheles
argyritarsis, the type species of Nyssorhynchus, and thus preserves the name Nyssorhynchus at
the genus rank. Species of the Nyssorhynchus genus are placed into two monophyletic groups
here defined as subgenera. One subgenus contains species of the Albimanus [81] and Argyritarsis
19
552 Series [82] [sensu 67], except for Anopheles atacamensis. As Anopheles argyritarsis belongs to
553 this clade, we consider it as the Nyssorhynchus subgenus.
554 Summary
555 With this study, we provided phylogenetic support for monophyly of Culicidae, and the subfam-
556 ilies Anophelinae and Culicinae. The genus Chagasia is consistently the earliest branching group
557 within Anophelinae. The phylogenetic position of Bironella, while not conclusive, is most likely
558 within the current genus Anopheles, which implies that the latter as currently defined is not
559 monophyletic. The subgenus Nyssorhynchus is sister to the clade containing Anopheles parvus, a
560 species that belongs to a yet unnamed genus. Cellia, Anopheles, Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, and
561 Stethomyia are monophyletic groups of the Anophelinae.
562 With the results of this study, we suggest modifications to the Anophelinae classification as
563 follows:
564 1. Elevate the monophyletic groupings Kerteszia, Lophopodomyia, Nyssorhynchus, and Stethomyia
565 to genus level.
566 2. Genus Anopheles to include subgenera Anopheles, Baimaia, Cellia, and Christya.
567 3. Anopheles parvus to be removed from Nyssorhynchus and to be placed into a new genus to
568 be described in the near future.
569 4. Genus Nyssorhynchus to include two subgenera – Myzorhynchella and Nyssorhynchus.
570 5. Myzorhynchella to be elevated from a Section to subgenus rank of the newly proposed
571 genus Nyssorhynchus — subgenus Myzorhynchella.
572 6. Both Anopheles atacamensis and Anopheles pictipennis to be transferred from subgenus
573 Nyssorhynchus to the newly proposed subgenus Myzorhynchella.
574 7. Subgenus Nyssorhynchus to include species of the Argyritarsis and Albimanus Sections,
575 except for those transferred to the Myzorhynchella subgenus.
576 We provide this alternative hypothesis for classification of Anophelinae in Table 7.
577 Ethics
578 All necessary permits were obtained for the described study. Mosquito collections were carried
579 out under permit number 16938-1 from Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos
580 Naturais Renováveis (IBAMA) to Maria Anice M. Sallum. Specific permission was not required
581 for these locations as permission to collect was granted under the permanent permit. The
582 collection locations were not privately owned or protected in any way, and the field collections
583 did not involve protected or endangered species.
584 Data accessibility
585 DNA sequences are available at the NCBI GenBank under the following accession codes: KU551283
586 – KU551289, MF040161 – MF040165, and MF381582 – MF381737. All specimen vouchers are
587 deposited in the Universidade de São Paulo, Faculdade de Saúde Pública Collection.
20
Table 7: New classification proposal for the subfamily Anophelinae
Genus sensu Harbach Newly proposed genus Subgenus sensu Harbach Newly proposed subgenus Type species
(2016)* systematization (2016)* systematization
Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles maculipennis
Meigen, 1818
Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles Meigen, 1818 Anopheles maculipennis
Meigen, 1818
Baimaia Harbach, Baimaia Harbach, Anopheles kyondawensis
Rattanarithikul & Harrison Rattanarithikul & Harrison Abraham, 1947
Christya Theobald, 1903 Christya Theobald, 1903 Anopheles implexus
(Theobald, 1903)
Cellia Theobald, 1902 Cellia Theobald, 1902 Cellia pharoensis
(Theobald, 1901)
Kerteszia Theobald, 1905 Kerteszia Theobald, 1905 — Kerteszia boliviensis
Theobald 1905
Lophopodomyia Antunes, Lophopodomyia Antunes, — Lophopodomyia
1937 1937 squamifemur (Antunes,
1937)
Nyssorhynchus Blanchard, Nyssorhynchus Blanchard, Nyssorhynchus Blanchard, Nyssorhynchus argyritarsis
1902 1902 1902 (Robineau-Desvoidy, 1827)
Myzorhynchella Theobald, Nyssorhynchus niger
1907 (Theobald, 1907); Currently,
synonym of Ny. lutzii
To be described — Nyssorhynchus parvus
(Chagas, 1907)
Stethomyia Theobald, 1902 Stethomyia Theobald, 1902 — Stethomyia nimbus
Theobald, 1902
Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella gracilis Theobald,
1905
Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella Theobald, 1905 Bironella gracilis Theobald,
1905
Brugella Edwards, 1930 Brugella Edwards, 1930 Bironella travestita (Brug,
1928)
Neobioronella Tenorio, 1977 Neobioronella Tenorio, 1977 Bironella confusa
Bonne-Wepster, 1951
Chagasia Cruz, 1906 Chagasia Cruz, 1906 — — Chagasia neivae Cruz, 1906;
Currently, synonym of
Chagasia fajardi
* Reference: Mosquito Taxonomic Inventory (www.mosquito-taxonomic-inventory.info/). Updated 22 April 2016 by Ralph E. Harbach.
21
588 Authors’ contributions
589 M.A.M.S, P.G.F., and E.S.B devised the study. E.S.B., D.C.S’A., S.S.N., C.G., made field col-
590 lections. D.C.S’A. and S.S.N. did specimen acquisition. D.C.S’A. and C.C.M. did specimen
591 curation. T.M.P.deO. did laboratory manipulations for sequencing. P.G.F. did sequence assem-
592 bly, annotation, and curation, phylogenetic analysis, and made the phylogenetic figures. S.N.
593 and C.E.L. reviewed and edited the first draft of the manuscript. P.G.F., M.A.M.S., and J.E.C
594 wrote the manuscript. M.A.M.S did species identification, got financial support, and oversaw
595 the project. All authors gave final approval for publication.
596 Competing interests
597 We declare that we have no compteting interests.
598 Funding
599 Financial support from Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP
600 Grants no. 2014/26229-7 and 2011/20397-7) was provided to MAMS and ESB; additionally,
601 NIH AI R01110112 provided partial financial support to JEC and MAMS; CNPq Grant no.
602 301877/2016-5 to MAMS.
603 Acknowledgements
604 We are in debt to Monique Albuquerque Motta (IOC – Rio de Janeiro), Luiz Carlos Oliveira
605 (FSP-USP), Allan Silva Martins, and other colleagues that kindly helped us in the field collec-
606 tions.
607 Footnotes
608 References
609 1. Feachem RGA, Phillips AA, Hwang J, Cotter C, Wielgosz B, Greenwood BM, Sabot O,
610 Rodriguez MH, et al. 2010 Shrinking the malaria map: progress and prospects. Lancet 376,
611 1566–78. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61270-6.
612 2. Liu J, Modrek S, Gosling RD, Feachem RGA. 2013 Malaria eradication: is it possible?
613 Is it worth it? Should we do it? Lancet Glob. Health 1, e2–3. doi: 10 . 1016 / S2214 -
614 109X(13)70002-0.
615 3. WHO. 2016 World Malaria Report. World Health Organization, Geneva.
616 4. PAHO. 2016 Report on the situation of malaria in the Americas 2014. Pan American Health
617 Organization, Washington, D. C.
618 5. Calderaro A, Piccolo G, Gorrini C, Rossi S, Montecchini S, Dell’Anna ML, De Conto F,
619 Medici MC, et al. 2013 Accurate identification of the six human Plasmodium spp. causing
620 imported malaria, including Plasmodium ovale wallikeri and Plasmodium knowlesi. Malar.
621 J. 12, 321. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-12-321.
22
6. Forattini OP. 2002 Culicidologia Médica II. Editora da Universidade de São Paulo, São
Paulo.
7. Harbach RE. 2015 Mosquito Taxonomic Inventory. url: http://www.mosquito-taxonomic-
inventory.info.
8. Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 2016 The phylogeny of Anophelinae revisited: inferences about
the origin and classification of Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae). Zool. Scr. 45, 34–47. doi:
10.1111/zsc.12137.
9. Tenorio JA. 1977 Revision of the genus Bironella (Diptera: Culicidae). J. Med. Entomol.
14, 317–361. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/14.3.317.
10. Harbach RE, Howard TM. 2009 Review of the genus Chagasia (Diptera: Culicidae: Anophe-
linae). Zootaxa 2210, 1–25.
11. Sallum MAM, Schultz TR, Wilkerson RC. 2000 Phylogeny of Anophelinae (Diptera: Culi-
cidae) based on morphological characters. Ann. Entomol. Soc. Am. 93, 745–775. doi: 10.
1603/0013-8746(2000)093[0745:POADCB]2.0.CO;2.
12. Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 2005 Reconsideration of anopheline mosquito phylogeny (Diptera:
Culicidae: Anophelinae) based on morphological data. Syst. Biodiversity 3, 345–374. doi:
10.1017/S147720000500174X.
13. Sallum MAM, Schultz TR, Foster PG, Aronstein K, Wirtz RA, Wilkerson RC. 2002 Phy-
logeny of Anophelinae (Diptera: Culicidae) based on nuclear ribosomal and mitochondrial
DNA sequences. Syst. Entomol. 27, 361–382. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-3113.2002.00182.x.
14. Krzywinski J, Besansky NJ. 2003 Molecular systematics of Anopheles: from subgenera to
subpopulations. Ann. Rev. Entomol. 48, 111–139. doi: 10 . 1146 / annurev . ento . 48 .
091801.112647.
15. Freitas LA, Russo CAM, Voloch CM, Mutaquiha OCF, Marques LP, Schrago CG. 2015
Diversification of the genus Anopheles and a Neotropical clade from the Late Cretaceous.
PloS One 10, e0134462. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0134462.
16. Krzywinski J, Wilkerson RC, Besansky NJ. 2001 Evolution of mitochondrial and ribosomal
gene sequences in Anophelinae (Diptera: Culicidae): implications for phylogeny reconstruc-
tion. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 18, 479–487. doi: 10.1006/mpev.2000.0894.
17. Collucci E, Sallum MAM. 2007 Cladistic analysis of the subgenus Anopheles (Anopheles)
Meigen (Diptera: Culicidae) based on morphological characters. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz
102, 277–292. doi: 10.1590/S0074-02762007005000026.
18. Harbach RE, Rattanarithikul R, Harrision [sic] BA. 2005 Baimaia, a new subgenus for
Anopheles kyondawensis Abraham, a unique crabhole-breeding anopheline in southeastern
Asia. Proc. Entomol. Soc. Wash. 107, 750–761.
19. Foley DH, Bryan JH, Yeates D, Saul A. 1998 Evolution and Systematics of Anopheles:
Insights from a Molecular Phylogeny of Australasian Mosquitoes. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 9,
262–275. doi: 10.1006/mpev.1997.0457.
20. Krzywinski J, Wilkerson RC, Besansky NJ. 2001 Toward understanding Anophelinae (Diptera,
Culicidae) phylogeny: insights from nuclear single-copy genes and the weight of evidence.
Syst. Biol. 50, 540–556. doi: 10.1080/10635150119931.
21. Collucci E, Sallum MAM. 2003 Phylogenetic analysis of the subgenus Kerteszia of Anopheles
(Diptera: Culicidae: Anophelinae) based on morphological characters. Insect Syst. Evol. 34,
iii–372. doi: 10.1163/187631203X00018.
23
666 22. Foster PG, Bergo ES, Bourke BP, Oliveira TMP, Nagaki SS, Sant’Ana DC, Sallum MAM.
667 2013 Phylogenetic analysis and DNA-based species confirmation in Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus).
668 PLoS One 8, e54063. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054063.
669 23. Cameron SL, Lo N, Bourguignon T, Svenson GJ, Evans TA. 2012 A mitochondrial genome
670 phylogeny of termites (Blattodea: Termitoidae): robust support for interfamilial relation-
671 ships and molecular synapomorphies define major clades. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 65, 163–
672 173. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.05.034.
673 24. Bernt M, Bleidorn C, Braband A, Dambach J, Donath A, Fritzsch G, Golombek A, Hadrys
674 H, et al. 2013 A comprehensive analysis of bilaterian mitochondrial genomes and phylogeny.
675 Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 69, 352–364. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.05.002.
676 25. Cameron SL. 2014 Insect mitochondrial genomics: implications for evolution and phylogeny.
677 Ann. Rev. Entomol. 59, 95–117. doi: 10.1146/annurev-ento-011613-162007.
678 26. Demari-Silva B, Foster PG, Oliveira TMP de, Bergo ES, Sanabani SS, Pessôa R, Sallum
679 MAM. 2015 Mitochondrial genomes and comparative analyses of Culex camposi, Culex
680 coronator, Culex usquatus and Culex usquatissimus (Diptera: Culicidae), members of the
681 coronator group. BMC Genomics 16, 1. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-1951-0.
682 27. Oliveira TMP, Foster PG, Bergo ES, Nagaki SS, Sanabani SS, Marinotti O, Marinotti PN,
683 Sallum MAM. 2016 Mitochondrial Genomes of Anopheles (Kerteszia)(Diptera: Culicidae)
684 From the Atlantic Forest, Brazil. J. Med. Entomol. 0, tjw001. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjw001.
685 28. Krzywinski J, Grushko OG, Besansky NJ. 2006 Analysis of the complete mitochondrial
686 DNA from Anopheles funestus: an improved dipteran mitochondrial genome annotation
687 and a temporal dimension of mosquito evolution. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 39, 417–423. doi:
688 10.1016/j.ympev.2006.01.006.
689 29. Krzywinski J, Li C, Morris M, Conn JE, Lima JB, Povoa MM, Wilkerson RC. 2011 Analysis
690 of the evolutionary forces shaping mitochondrial genomes of a Neotropical malaria vector
691 complex. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 58, 469–477. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2011.01.003.
692 30. Moreno M, Marinotti O, Krzywinski J, Tadei WP, James AA, Achee NL, Conn JE. 2010
693 Complete mtDNA genomes of Anopheles darlingi and an approach to anopheline divergence
694 time. Malar. J. 9, 1. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-9-127.
695 31. Logue K, Chan ER, Phipps T, Small ST, Reimer L, Henry-Halldin C, Sattabongkot J, Siba
696 PM, et al. 2013 Mitochondrial genome sequences reveal deep divergences among Anopheles
697 punctulatus sibling species in Papua New Guinea. Malar. J. 12, 1. doi: 10.1186/1475-
698 2875-12-64.
699 32. Yang X, Cameron SL, Lees DC, Xue D, Han H. 2015 A mitochondrial genome phylogeny
700 of owlet moths (Lepidoptera: Noctuoidea), and examination of the utility of mitochondrial
701 genomes for lepidopteran phylogenetics. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 85, 230–237. doi: 10.1016/
702 j.ympev.2015.02.005.
703 33. Foster PG, Hickey DA. 1999 Compositional bias may affect both DNA-based and protein-
704 based phylogenetic reconstructions. J. Mol. Evol. 48, 284–290. doi: 10.1007/PL00006471.
705 34. Rota-Stabelli O, Lartillot N, Philippe H, Pisani D. 2013 Serine codon-usage bias in deep
706 phylogenomics: pancrustacean relationships as a case study. Syst. Biol. 62, 121–133. doi:
707 10.1093/sysbio/sys077.
708 35. Cox CJ, Li B, Foster PG, Embley TM, Civán P. 2014 Conflicting phylogenies for early land
709 plants are caused by composition biases among synonymous substitutions. Syst. Biol. 63,
710 272–279. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syt109.
24
36. Sallum MAM, Foster PG, Dos Santos CLS, Flores DC, Motoki MT, Bergo ES. 2010 Res-
urrection of two species from synonymy of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) strodei Root, and
characterization of a distinct morphological form from the strodei complex (Diptera: Culi-
cidae). J. Med. Entomol. 47, 504–526. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/47.4.504.
37. Nagaki SS, Motta MdA, Sallum MAM. 2010 Redescription of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus)
antunesi Galvão & Amaral and description of a new species of the Myzorhynchella Section
(Diptera: Culicidae) from Serra da Mantiqueira, Brazil. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 105,
278–285. doi: 10.1590/S0074-02762010000300006.
38. Sanger F, Nicklen S, Coulson AR. 1977 DNA sequencing with chain-terminating inhibitors.
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. (USA) 74, 5463–5467.
39. Chevreux B, Wetter T, Suhai S. Genome sequence assembly using trace signals and ad-
ditional sequence information. Computer Science and Biology: Proceedings of the German
conference on bioinformatics. 99. Heidelberg, pp. 45–56.
40. Peng Y, Leung HCM, Yiu S.-M, Chin FYL. 2012 IDBA-UD: a de novo assembler for single-
cell and metagenomic sequencing data with highly uneven depth. Bioinformatics 28, 1420–
1428. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts174.
41. Huang X, Madan A. 1999 CAP3: A DNA sequence assembly program. Genome Res. 9,
868–877. doi: 10.1101/gr.9.9.868.
42. Milne I, Stephen G, Bayer M, Cock PJ, Pritchard L, Cardle L, Shaw PD, Marshall D. 2013
Using Tablet for visual exploration of second-generation sequencing data. Brief. Bioinf. 14,
193–202. doi: doi.org/10.1093/bib/bbs012.
43. Altschul SF, Madden TL, Schäffer AA, Zhang J, Zhang Z, Miller W, Lipman DJ. 1997
Gapped BLAST and PSI-BLAST: a new generation of protein database search programs.
Nucl. Acids Res. 25, 3389–3402. doi: 10.1093/nar/25.17.3389.
44. Bernt M, Donath A, Jühling F, Externbrink F, Florentz C, Fritzsch G, Pütz J, Middendorf
M, et al. 2013 MITOS: Improved de novo metazoan mitochondrial genome annotation. Mol.
Phylogenet. Evol. 69, 313–319. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2012.08.023.
45. Cock PJA, Antao T, Chang JT, Chapman BA, Cox CJ, Dalke A, Friedberg I, Hamelryck T,
et al. 2009 Biopython: freely available Python tools for computational molecular biology and
bioinformatics. Bioinformatics 25, 1422–1423. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btp163.
46. Foster PG. 2004 Modeling compositional heterogeneity. Syst. Biol. 53, 485–495. doi: 10.
1080/10635150490445779.
47. Sievers F, Wilm A, Dineen D, Gibson TJ, Karplus K, Li W, Lopez R, McWilliam H, et al.
2011 Fast, scalable generation of high-quality protein multiple sequence alignments using
Clustal Omega. Mol. Syst. Biol. 7, 539. doi: 10.1038/msb.2011.75.
48. Castresana J. 2000 Selection of conserved blocks from multiple alignments for their use
in phylogenetic analysis. Mol. Biol. Evol. 17, 540–552. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.
molbev.a026334.
49. Lartillot N, Philippe H. 2004 A Bayesian mixture model for across-site heterogeneities in
the amino-acid replacement process. Mol. Biol. Evol. 21, 1095–1109. doi: 10.1093/molbev/
msh112.
50. Swofford DL. 2003 PAUP*. Phylogenetic analysis using parsimony (* and other methods).
Version 4.
51. Guindon S, Gascuel O. 2003 A simple, fast, and accurate algorithm to estimate large phylo-
genies by maximum likelihood. Syst. Biol. 52, 696–704. doi: 10.1080/10635150390235520.
25
756 52. Stamatakis A. 2014 RAxML version 8: a tool for phylogenetic analysis and post-analysis of
757 large phylogenies. Bioinformatics 30, 1312–1313. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu033.
758 53. Nguyen L.-T, Schmidt HA, Haeseler A von, Minh BQ. 2014 IQ-TREE: A Fast and Effective
759 Stochastic Algorithm for Estimating Maximum-Likelihood Phylogenies. Mol. Biol. Evol. 32,
760 268–274. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msu300.
761 54. Minh BQ, Nguyen MAT, Haeseler A von. 2013 Ultrafast Approximation for Phylogenetic
762 Bootstrap. Mol. Biol. Evol. 30, 1188–1195. doi: 10.1093/molbev/mst024.
763 55. Chernomor O, Haeseler A von, Minh BQ. 2016 Terrace Aware Data Structure for Phy-
764 logenomic Inference from Supermatrices. Syst. Biol. 65, 997–1008. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/
765 syw037.
766 56. Kalyaanamoorthy S, Minh BQ, Wong TKF, Haeseler A von, Jermiin LS. 2017 ModelFinder:
767 fast model selection for accurate phylogenetic estimates. Nature Methods 14, 587–589. doi:
768 10.1038/nmeth.4285.
769 57. Hansmann S, Martin W. 2000 Phylogeny of 33 ribosomal and six other proteins encoded in
770 an ancient gene cluster that is conserved across prokaryotic genomes: influence of excluding
771 poorly alignable sites from analysis. Int. J. Syst. Evol. Microbiol. 50, 1655–1663. doi:
772 10.1099/00207713-50-4-1655.
773 58. Cummins CA, McInerney JO. 2011 A method for inferring the rate of evolution of homolo-
774 gous characters that can potentially improve phylogenetic inference, resolve deep divergence
775 and correct systematic biases. Syst. Biol. 60, 833–844. doi: 10.1093/sysbio/syr064.
776 59. Rodri´guez-Ezpeleta N, Brinkmann H, Roure B, Lartillot N, Lang BF, Philippe H. 2007
777 Detecting and overcoming systematic errors in genome-scale phylogenies. Syst. Biol. 56,
778 389–399. doi: 10.1080/10635150701397643.
779 60. Theobald FV. 1907 A monograph of the Culicidae or mosquitoes. Vol. 4. British Museum
780 (Natural History).
781 61. Christophers S. 1915 The male genetalia of Anopheles. Indian Journal of Medical Research
782 3, 371–394.
783 62. Edwards F. 1921 A revision of the mosquitos [sic] of the Palaearctic Region. Bull. Entomol.
784 Res. 12, 263–351. doi: 10.1017/S0007485300040207.
785 63. Root F. 1923 The male genitalia of some American Anopheles mosquitoes. Am. J. Hyg. 3,
786 264–279.
787 64. Edwards F. 1932 Genera Insectorum. Diptera, Fam. Culicidae. Vol. Fascicle 194. Desmet-
788 Verteneuil, Brussels.
789 65. Antunes P. 1937 A new Anopheles and a new Goeldia from Colombia (Dipt. Culic.). Bull.
790 Entomol. Res. 28, 69–73. doi: 10.1017/S000748530003830X.
791 66. Komp W. 1937 The species of the subgenus Kerteszia of Anopheles (Diptera, Culicidae).
792 Ann. Entomol. Soc. Am. 30, 492–529. doi: 10.1093/aesa/30.3.492.
793 67. Harbach RE. 2013 The phylogeny and classification of Anopheles. In: Anopheles mosquitoes
794 : new insights into malaria vectors. Ed. by Manguin S. Rijeka: Intech, pp. 3–55. doi:
795 10.5772/54695.
796 68. Kjer KM, Simon C, Yavorskaya M, Beutel RG. 2016 Progress, pitfalls and parallel universes:
797 a history of insect phylogenetics. J. R. Soc. Interface 13, 20160363. doi: 10.1098/rsif.
798 2016.0363.
26
69. Li H, Shao R, Song N, Song F, Jiang P, Li Z, Cai W. 2015 Higher-level phylogeny of
paraneopteran insects inferred from mitochondrial genome sequences. Scient. Rep. 5, 8527.
doi: 10.1038/srep08527.
70. Talavera G, Vila R. 2011 What is the phylogenetic signal limit from mitogenomes? The
reconciliation between mitochondrial and nuclear data in the Insecta class phylogeny. BMC
Evol. Biol. 11, 315. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-11-315.
71. Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 1998 Phylogeny and classification of the Culicidae (Diptera).
Syst. Entomol. 23, 327–370. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-3113.1998.00072.x.
72. Misof B, Liu S, Meusemann K, Peters RS, Donath A, Mayer C, Frandsen PB, Ware J,
et al. 2014 Phylogenomics resolves the timing and pattern of insect evolution. Science 346,
763–767. doi: 10.1126/science.1257570.
73. Peters RS, Krogmann L, Mayer C, Donath A, Gunkel S, Meusemann K, Kozlov A, Podsiad-
lowski L, et al. 2017 Evolutionary History of the Hymenoptera. Curr. Biol. 27, 1013–1018.
doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.01.027.
74. Branstetter MG, Danforth BN, Pitts JP, Faircloth BC, Ward PS, Buffington ML, Gates
MW, Kula RR, et al. 2017 Phylogenomic insights into the evolution of stinging wasps and
the origins of ants and bees. Curr. Biol. 27, 1019–1025. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.03.027.
75. Vences M, Guayasamin JM, Miralles A, De La Riva I. 2013 To name or not to name: Criteria
to promote economy of change in Linnaean classification schemes. Zootaxa 3636, 201–244.
doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.3636.2.1.
76. Wiley EO, Lieberman BS. 2011 Phylogenetics: theory and practice of phylogenetic system-
atics. John Wiley &amp; Sons.
77. Wilkerson RC, Linton Y.-M, Fonseca DM, Schultz TR, Price DC, Strickman DA. 2015
Making Mosquito Taxonomy Useful: A Stable Classification of Tribe Aedini that Balances
Utility with Current Knowledge of Evolutionary Relationships. PLOS ONE 10. Ed. by Liu
Z.-J, e0133602. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133602. url: https://doi.org/10.1371/
journal.pone.0133602.
78. Reinert JF, Harbach RE, Kitching IJ. 2009 Phylogeny and classification of tribe Aedini
(Diptera: Culicidae). Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 157, 700–794. doi: 10.1111/j.1096-3642.2009.
00570.x.
79. Bourke BP, Foster PG, Bergo ES, Calado DC, Sallum MAM. 2010 Phylogenetic relation-
ships among species of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus)(Diptera, Culicidae) based on nuclear and
mitochondrial gene sequences. Acta tropica 114, 88–96. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.
2010.01.009.
80. Peyton E, Wilkerson RC, Harbach RE. 1992 Comparative analysis of the subgenera Kerteszia
and Nyssorhynchus of Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae). Mosq. Syst. 24, 51–69.
81. Faran M. 1980 Mosquito studies (Diptera: Culicidae) XXXIV. A revision of the Albimanus
Section of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus of Anopheles. Contrib. Am. Entomol. Inst.
82. Linthicum K. 1988 A revision of the Argyritarsis section of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus of
Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae). Mosq. Syst. 20, 98–271.
83. Root F. 1927 Studies on Brazilian mosquitoes. IV. Notes on some Brazilian species of
Anopheles. Am. J. Hyg. 7, 599–605.
84. Galvão A. 1941 Contribuição ao conhecimento das espécies de Myzorhynchella (Diptera:
Culicidae). Arch Zool S Paulo 2, 505–576.
27
843 85. Bourke BP, Nagaki SS, Bergo ES, Cardoso JdC, Sallum MAM. 2011 Molecular phylogeny
844 of the Myzorhynchella Section of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus)(Diptera: Culicidae): genetic
845 support for recently described and resurrected species. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 106, 705–
846 715. doi: 10.1590/S0074-02762011000600010.
847 86. Forattini O, Sallum MAM, Bergo E, Flores D. 1998 Ultrastructure of eggs of Anopheles ron-
848 doni, Anopheles lutzii and Anopheles parvus, three species of the subgenus Nyssorhynchus.
849 J. Am. Mosq. Control Assoc. 14, 256–65.
850 87. Howard LO, Dyar HG, Knab F. 1917 The mosquitoes of North and Central America and
851 the West Indies. Part II. Vol. 4. Carnegie Institution, Washington DC.
852 88. Christophers S. 1924 Provisional list and reference catalogue of the Anophelini. Indian J.
853 Med. Res.
854 89. Lane J. 1953 Neotropical Culicidae. Vol. 2. São Paulo, Brazil: University of São Paulo.
28
Society Open
