Why are we not evaluating multiple competing hypotheses
in ecology and evolution?
Gustavo S. Betini, Tal Avgar and John M. Fryxell
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160756.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160756
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 September 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 28 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 2 December 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 5 December 2016
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160735)
23-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Betini:
I write you in regards to manuscript # RSOS-160735 entitled "Why are we not evaluating multiple
competing hypotheses?" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science. In light of the
appropriateness of your manuscript for our journal, your manuscript has been denied publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
As is our policy, the journal is only able to consider invited reviews for publication. Having said
this, the journal does welcome unsolicited review proposals, but all proposals must first be
agreed by the relevant Subject Editor. Proposals for reviews should be no longer than 1 side of
A4, include a structural outline with sub-headings to briefly explain description of content, and
must succinctly identify the core issue(s) to be addressed. If you would like to propose a review
for submission, please contact the journal directly via the email address
openscience@royalsociety.org.
For more information about the article types considered by the journal, please follow the link
below:
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/information-authors#question2
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Thank you for considering Royal Society Open Science for the publication of your research. I
hope the outcome of this specific submission will not discourage you from the submission of
future manuscripts.
Regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_1
RSOS-160756.R0 (Resubmission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Alessandro Minelli)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
My only critical remarks, both minor, are:
Title
In the title, no specific discipline is mentioned, but the article specifically addresses current
practice in biology and, within biology, in ecology and evolution specifically. This should be
reflected in the article’s title
Multiple causes
(last lines of p. 8 to first lines of p. 9) “The profound utility of the null Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium is that, if trait frequencies do exhibit change over time, then it must be because one of
the six conditions has been violated.” – Comment: in any given case, more than just one condition
may have been violated.
Alessandro Minelli - University of Padova
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No - see specific comment to authors.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript addresses an important topic and a potential mismatch between what researchers
are doing, and what they perhaps believe they ought to be doing. The aim and theme are very
worthwhile. In general, I would like to see more published on the topic of how science is done
and ought to be done, with contrasts between the two highlighted. However, I find deficiencies in
the execution of the manuscript.
Overall, the tone of this manuscript makes me uncomfortable. Is it a polemic? Is it a review of
literature? Is it a contribution to philosophy of science? I ask, not to reinforce arbitrary
disciplinary boundaries, but because the text has an intermediate level of detail that I find
frustrating as a reader. Concepts are introduced but not sufficiently linked to the literature or to
examples - whether hypothetical thought-experiments or actual published experiments.
I supply a few suggestions, below. I am relaxed about whether the authors follow these specific
suggestions, or choose to increase the depth and rigour of the manuscript in other ways. For
example: re-focusing the text on the empirical study of literature could be another approach.
"Needless to say, exploratory analysis and data mining should be conducted with extra attention
to type I errors." (p. 6)
Is this needless - in which case, does it have to be said at all? My instinct is, it is not needless. But
then, I am left hungry for detail. What type of attention is required (for a "philosophy of science"
essay)? And/or: are there a few references that could be cited, covering this (for a "review
article")? Can something pithy be said about work that gets this wrong (for a "polemic")?
Syllogisms (p. 6). I think the authors' point is, the first syllogism follows from the statements but
one of the statements is false. However, this could be made more explicit.
Conflict between logic and prior knowledge (pp. 6-7). The authors should be more explicit about
whether this is necessarily a problem. They may or may not agree with Stegenga (2013, "Evidence
in biology and the conditions of success", Biol Philos 28:981-1004) - but some reference to
Stegenga's paper, or similar arguments, would clarify and enrich the text.
4
"… a statistical null model is usually generated in opposition to a single hypothesis" (p. 9). This
appears to contradict the author's outline of HWE (p. 8), in which the null model is presented as
being in opposition to six hypotheses. This might be covered by the authors' use of "usually". But
this requires explanation.
"… information-theoretic basis" (p. 9). In context it appears the authors are talking about AIC (or
BIC) - in which case, they should make it clear. Otherwise it is not immediately obvious whether
they mean AIC, or mutual information, entropic priors, or some other approach linked to
information theory.
"The candidate set of models tested … considered in the context of the full set of alternatives” (p.
9). This is intriguing. However, I did not fully understand. The authors should consider
expanding this section, either with a thought-experiment or with reference to an actual study in
biology.
"Null models don't come easily. ..." (pp. 9-10). An explanatory example - again, whether a
thought-experiment or an actual study - is required to clarify the text here.
"The only remedy is to ..." (p. 10). If the authors wish to take a polemical tone, it seems to me this
requires further support from their own text. For a philosophy-of-science angle, it requires deeper
analysis. Or for a review, it requires references to the literature and discussion of those references.
Alternatively, "only remedy" could be rephrased in a less inflammatory way. (Of course:
combinations of these approaches are possible.)
"Good scientists always follow the literature … Forcing oneself to follow other 'schools of
thought' … is vitally important". This paragraph is too light. For example: consider the broader
"sociology of science" angle, in which it may be argued rival scientists with entrenched points of
view contribute to progress of the field as a whole (Hull 1988, Science as a Process)? The authors
may not agree - which is fine - but some attention to this point of view would strengthen the
manuscript.
"We propose that concerted collaboration between opposite sides of the same debate is the only
way one could reach such far-reaching conclusions." (pp. 10-11) As-is, this statement comes
across as false. Major advances in science have been made by researchers not noted for their
collaboration with the opposite side (e.g. RA Fisher, Darwin). The authors' statement is also in
opposition to the thesis of Hull (1988, cited above). The authors might explicitly consider counter-
examples, and/or explicitly delimit the extent to which their proposal applies.
Crowdsourcing (p. 11). This is intriguing and - like the authors - I have not heard of it applied in
ecology and evolution. It would be helpful to outline a thought experiment, showing in principle
how it could work.
"The fallacy of factorial design." (pp. 11-12) There are many questions in ecology and evolution
which cannot be addressed by factorial design, necessarily being based on observations (e.g.
phylogeny, and in general perhaps the evolution of wild populations). Some attention could be
given to these.
"Although not a law, this tension between new and old ideas essentially reflects a conflict
between new and old generations." This is another rather inflammatory statement which requires
further detail, discussion and references to the literature (beyond the single reference cited),
and/or reference to individual cases. Otherwise, counter-examples come to mind (e.g. Lamarck,
who made his most major contributions as an older man).
5
Decision trees (p. 13). Like crowdsourcing (above), this is intriguing but, if included, requires
coverage with further depth. How might a decision tree work for a particular example in ecology
or evolution? How would it compare to a more typical approach?
"... before spending large amounts of money and years in the field." Again, some (hypothetical or
real) example seems necessary here, illustrating the tension between laboratory and field work.
Box 1. The authors should clarify "alternative possible outcomes". For example, for continuous
data (as might be used to estimate a mean), there are - in principle - infinite possible outcomes.
"lacked any clear motivation or hypothesis" (p. 21; also Figure 1 legend). Could this be rephrased
or expanded? It comes across as a negative verdict on the quality of three papers, but without
justification. It occurs to me (without knowing the papers), they might have a strong implicit
motivation that was simply not covered in the paper itself (e.g. a genome sequencing project, to
generate a widely usable resource; other possibilities come to mind).
Citations and/or DOI for the papers analysed in Figure 1 should be included as a spreadsheet or
table as supplementary data. Optionally, I would also like this table/spreadsheet to include the
authors' categorisation of the papers.
Figure 1. Since these bars represent an estimate (being based on a random sample of literature),
some indication of the certainty of results or precision of estimates would be useful - whether in
the figure, legend or text.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160756)
28-Oct-2016
Dear Dr Betini,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Why are we not evaluating multiple competing
hypotheses?") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 20-Nov-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
6
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160756
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
7
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
The referees have made a number of useful suggestions as to how the manuscript can be revised
in order to strengthen the way the message is put across to readers. One referee, in particular, has
a list of suggestions for the authors to consider, largely relating to the style or tone of the
manuscript and its overall aim. These suggestions should be helpful to the authors and give the
authors a choice in how they want to accommodate the recommendations. It would clearly be
beneficial to accommodate as many of these comments as possible in order to improve the
manuscript.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
My only critical remarks, both minor, are:
Title
In the title, no specific discipline is mentioned, but the article specifically addresses current
practice in biology and, within biology, in ecology and evolution specifically. This should be
reflected in the article’s title
Multiple causes
(last lines of p. 8 to first lines of p. 9) “The profound utility of the null Hardy-Weinberg
equilibrium is that, if trait frequencies do exhibit change over time, then it must be because one of
the six conditions has been violated.” – Comment: in any given case, more than just one condition
may have been violated.
Alessandro Minelli - University of Padova
8
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The manuscript addresses an important topic and a potential mismatch between what researchers
are doing, and what they perhaps believe they ought to be doing. The aim and theme are very
worthwhile. In general, I would like to see more published on the topic of how science is done
and ought to be done, with contrasts between the two highlighted. However, I find deficiencies in
the execution of the manuscript.
Overall, the tone of this manuscript makes me uncomfortable. Is it a polemic? Is it a review of
literature? Is it a contribution to philosophy of science? I ask, not to reinforce arbitrary
disciplinary boundaries, but because the text has an intermediate level of detail that I find
frustrating as a reader. Concepts are introduced but not sufficiently linked to the literature or to
examples - whether hypothetical thought-experiments or actual published experiments.
I supply a few suggestions, below. I am relaxed about whether the authors follow these specific
suggestions, or choose to increase the depth and rigour of the manuscript in other ways. For
example: re-focusing the text on the empirical study of literature could be another approach.
"Needless to say, exploratory analysis and data mining should be conducted with extra attention
to type I errors." (p. 6)
Is this needless - in which case, does it have to be said at all? My instinct is, it is not needless. But
then, I am left hungry for detail. What type of attention is required (for a "philosophy of science"
essay)? And/or: are there a few references that could be cited, covering this (for a "review
article")? Can something pithy be said about work that gets this wrong (for a "polemic")?
Syllogisms (p. 6). I think the authors' point is, the first syllogism follows from the statements but
one of the statements is false. However, this could be made more explicit.
Conflict between logic and prior knowledge (pp. 6-7). The authors should be more explicit about
whether this is necessarily a problem. They may or may not agree with Stegenga (2013, "Evidence
in biology and the conditions of success", Biol Philos 28:981-1004) - but some reference to
Stegenga's paper, or similar arguments, would clarify and enrich the text.
"… a statistical null model is usually generated in opposition to a single hypothesis" (p. 9). This
appears to contradict the author's outline of HWE (p. 8), in which the null model is presented as
being in opposition to six hypotheses. This might be covered by the authors' use of "usually". But
this requires explanation.
"… information-theoretic basis" (p. 9). In context it appears the authors are talking about AIC (or
BIC) - in which case, they should make it clear. Otherwise it is not immediately obvious whether
they mean AIC, or mutual information, entropic priors, or some other approach linked to
information theory.
"The candidate set of models tested … considered in the context of the full set of alternatives” (p.
9). This is intriguing. However, I did not fully understand. The authors should consider
expanding this section, either with a thought-experiment or with reference to an actual study in
biology.
"Null models don't come easily. ..." (pp. 9-10). An explanatory example - again, whether a
thought-experiment or an actual study - is required to clarify the text here.
9
"The only remedy is to ..." (p. 10). If the authors wish to take a polemical tone, it seems to me this
requires further support from their own text. For a philosophy-of-science angle, it requires deeper
analysis. Or for a review, it requires references to the literature and discussion of those references.
Alternatively, "only remedy" could be rephrased in a less inflammatory way. (Of course:
combinations of these approaches are possible.)
"Good scientists always follow the literature … Forcing oneself to follow other 'schools of
thought' … is vitally important". This paragraph is too light. For example: consider the broader
"sociology of science" angle, in which it may be argued rival scientists with entrenched points of
view contribute to progress of the field as a whole (Hull 1988, Science as a Process)? The authors
may not agree - which is fine - but some attention to this point of view would strengthen the
manuscript.
"We propose that concerted collaboration between opposite sides of the same debate is the only
way one could reach such far-reaching conclusions." (pp. 10-11) As-is, this statement comes
across as false. Major advances in science have been made by researchers not noted for their
collaboration with the opposite side (e.g. RA Fisher, Darwin). The authors' statement is also in
opposition to the thesis of Hull (1988, cited above). The authors might explicitly consider counter-
examples, and/or explicitly delimit the extent to which their proposal applies.
Crowdsourcing (p. 11). This is intriguing and - like the authors - I have not heard of it applied in
ecology and evolution. It would be helpful to outline a thought experiment, showing in principle
how it could work.
"The fallacy of factorial design." (pp. 11-12) There are many questions in ecology and evolution
which cannot be addressed by factorial design, necessarily being based on observations (e.g.
phylogeny, and in general perhaps the evolution of wild populations). Some attention could be
given to these.
"Although not a law, this tension between new and old ideas essentially reflects a conflict
between new and old generations." This is another rather inflammatory statement which requires
further detail, discussion and references to the literature (beyond the single reference cited),
and/or reference to individual cases. Otherwise, counter-examples come to mind (e.g. Lamarck,
who made his most major contributions as an older man).
Decision trees (p. 13). Like crowdsourcing (above), this is intriguing but, if included, requires
coverage with further depth. How might a decision tree work for a particular example in ecology
or evolution? How would it compare to a more typical approach?
"... before spending large amounts of money and years in the field." Again, some (hypothetical or
real) example seems necessary here, illustrating the tension between laboratory and field work.
Box 1. The authors should clarify "alternative possible outcomes". For example, for continuous
data (as might be used to estimate a mean), there are - in principle - infinite possible outcomes.
"lacked any clear motivation or hypothesis" (p. 21; also Figure 1 legend). Could this be rephrased
or expanded? It comes across as a negative verdict on the quality of three papers, but without
justification. It occurs to me (without knowing the papers), they might have a strong implicit
motivation that was simply not covered in the paper itself (e.g. a genome sequencing project, to
generate a widely usable resource; other possibilities come to mind).
10
Citations and/or DOI for the papers analysed in Figure 1 should be included as a spreadsheet or
table as supplementary data. Optionally, I would also like this table/spreadsheet to include the
authors' categorisation of the papers.
Figure 1. Since these bars represent an estimate (being based on a random sample of literature),
some indication of the certainty of results or precision of estimates would be useful - whether in
the figure, legend or text.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160756)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160756.R1)
05-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Betini,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Why are we not evaluating multiple
competing hypotheses in ecology and evolution?" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Thank you for taking such care to accommodate all of the reviewers' comments and for providing
a very clear response letter and annotated revised manuscript. The manuscript constitutes an
interesting and thought-provoking paper.
COLLEGE OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE
Department of Integrative Biology
ber 29th, 2016
evin Padian
t Editor, Royal Society Open Science
rofessor Padian,
nk you for the chance to resubmit our paper entitled “Why are we not evaluating multiple
ting hypotheses?” to Royal Society Open Science and thank the two reviewers for comments on
ginal version of this manuscript. We have now addressed all of these comments and think that
nuscript has been significantly improved as a result. Below, we have copied the referees
ents and included our replies in bold. We have highlighted in red all changes we have made in the
cript.
k forward to hearing back from you and please do not hesitate to contact us if you require
clarification or additional information.
ely,
o S. Betini
gar
. Fryxell
tment of Integrative Biology,
sity of Guelph,
h, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada.
wer: 1
ents to the Author(s)
ly critical remarks, both minor, are:
title, no specific discipline is mentioned, but the article specifically addresses current practice in
y and, within biology, in ecology and evolution specifically. This should be reflected in the
’s title
s for the suggestions. We have now modified the title: “Why are we not evaluating multiple
ting hypotheses in ecology and evolution?
le causes
nes of p. 8 to first lines of p. 9) “The profound utility of the null Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium is
trait frequencies do exhibit change over time, then it must be because one of the six conditions
en violated.” – Comment: in any given case, more than just one condition may have been
d.
ndro Minelli - University of Padova
ve modified the text in the manuscript following reviewer 1 suggestion (l. 214). Now it
“... then it must be because at least one of the six conditions...”
wer: 2
ents to the Author(s)
anuscript addresses an important topic and a potential mismatch between what researchers are
and what they perhaps believe they ought to be doing. The aim and theme are very worthwhile.
eral, I would like to see more published on the topic of how science is done and ought to be
with contrasts between the two highlighted. However, I find deficiencies in the execution of the
cript.
l, the tone of this manuscript makes me uncomfortable. Is it a polemic? Is it a review of
re? Is it a contribution to philosophy of science? I ask, not to reinforce arbitrary disciplinary
aries, but because the text has an intermediate level of detail that I find frustrating as a reader.
pts are introduced but not sufficiently linked to the literature or to examples - whether
etical thought-experiments or actual published experiments.
y a few suggestions, below. I am relaxed about whether the authors follow these specific
tions, or choose to increase the depth and rigour of the manuscript in other ways. For example:
using the text on the empirical study of literature could be another approach.
ank reviewer 2 for the comments. During the preparation of the manuscript, we gave full
eration to this issue. We believe our manuscript is a perspective piece that gives our
al account on the subject but it is also supported by empirical examples. With this in mind,
lowed reviewer 2 suggestions and provided more examples from the ecological and
ionary literature that could make the concepts and ideas clearer. We have also clarified this
text (l. 69)
less to say, exploratory analysis and data mining should be conducted with extra attention to type
s." (p. 6)
needless - in which case, does it have to be said at all? My instinct is, it is not needless. But then,
ft hungry for detail. What type of attention is required (for a "philosophy of science" essay)?
r: are there a few references that could be cited, covering this (for a "review article")? Can
ing pithy be said about work that gets this wrong (for a "polemic")?
ree with reviewer 2 here. We have expanded our discussion, including examples from the
ure to explain why pattern seeking is a problem in data mining (l. 132-143). Briefly, even
mly generated variables can have low p-values and high R2 depending on how the analysis
ducted. Without a set of predictions in mind, one might unconsciously bias the search for
that support their favourite hypothesis.
isms (p. 6). I think the authors' point is, the first syllogism follows from the statements but one of
tements is false. However, this could be made more explicit.
xt now reads: “The conclusion follows the premises, but one of the premises is false (i.e.
s do not walk).” (l. 155)
ct between logic and prior knowledge (pp. 6-7). The authors should be more explicit about
er this is necessarily a problem. They may or may not agree with Stegenga (2013, "Evidence in
y and the conditions of success", Biol Philos 28:981-1004) - but some reference to Stegenga's
or similar arguments, would clarify and enrich the text.
lieve this is a problem because researchers might judge evidence based on their favourite
hesis (prior knowledge), not based on logic. This could be even more important because, as
in Stegenga (now cited in the main text), it is not clear how researchers define whether
evidence is reliable or not. We re-arrange the paragraph and introduced empirical evidence
port our claim (l. 165-169).
tatistical null model is usually generated in opposition to a single hypothesis" (p. 9). This
s to contradict the author's outline of HWE (p. 8), in which the null model is presented as being
osition to six hypotheses. This might be covered by the authors' use of "usually". But this
s explanation.
tistical null model we mean the H0 in the classical statistical test, not a research hypothesis,
he case of the HWE. We have clarified this in the text (l. 224-225).
ormation-theoretic basis" (p. 9). In context it appears the authors are talking about AIC (or BIC)
ich case, they should make it clear. Otherwise it is not immediately obvious whether they mean
r mutual information, entropic priors, or some other approach linked to information theory.
e reviewer is correct here. We have now explicitly mentioned both AIC and BIC in the text
-230).
andidate set of models tested … considered in the context of the full set of alternatives” (p. 9).
intriguing. However, I did not fully understand. The authors should consider expanding this
, either with a thought-experiment or with reference to an actual study in biology.
oal of this paragraph is to emphasize that model competition is not a stepwise regression
dure. We have now included this information in the main text and elaborated more on this
(l. 236-237 and l. 240-242).
models don't come easily. ..." (pp. 9-10). An explanatory example - again, whether a thought-
ment or an actual study - is required to clarify the text here.
point. We have now used the HWM as an example to explain why researchers rarely think
null models. We wrote: “Evolutionary biologists want to understand how evolution
ns, so they think about the mechanisms driving changes in allele frequencies, not about the
nisms that might keep allele frequencies constant or situations under which these
nisms are never at work. (l. 244-250).
nly remedy is to ..." (p. 10). If the authors wish to take a polemical tone, it seems to me this
s further support from their own text. For a philosophy-of-science angle, it requires deeper
is. Or for a review, it requires references to the literature and discussion of those references.
atively, "only remedy" could be rephrased in a less inflammatory way. (Of course: combinations
e approaches are possible.)
oal was not to be polemical, but provide a way to avoid cognitive bias. We, however, do not
of any study showing that the use of creative thinking minimize cognitive bias. We have
aborated this point in the manuscript (l. 257-263).
scientists always follow the literature … Forcing oneself to follow other 'schools of thought' …
ly important". This paragraph is too light. For example: consider the broader "sociology of
e" angle, in which it may be argued rival scientists with entrenched points of view contribute to
ss of the field as a whole (Hull 1988, Science as a Process)? The authors may not agree - which
- but some attention to this point of view would strengthen the manuscript.
ree with reviewer 2 that the section is too light. After reading the manuscript with this
ents in mind, we realized that this section is not necessary. Our goal is to emphasize the
ial benefits of working with researchers with different perspective, which we covered in the
ection ‘Work with the enemy’.
opose that concerted collaboration between opposite sides of the same debate is the only way
uld reach such far-reaching conclusions." (pp. 10-11) As-is, this statement comes across as false.
advances in science have been made by researchers not noted for their collaboration with the
te side (e.g. RA Fisher, Darwin). The authors' statement is also in opposition to the thesis of Hull
cited above). The authors might explicitly consider counter-examples, and/or explicitly delimit
ent to which their proposal applies.
ree that the debate among different scientific traditions is crucial for the development of
e, but it is often the case that these traditions have much more in common than it is first
ed. Collaboration among opposite sides of a debate is a good way to evaluate the
nces and similarities among opposite traditions, which could help in the development of
ole field. We have now clarified this in the text (l. 268-272 and 279-281).
sourcing (p. 11). This is intriguing and - like the authors - I have not heard of it applied in
y and evolution. It would be helpful to outline a thought experiment, showing in principle how it
work.
ve provided two ways by which this could be accomplished (l. 287-290): “In the simplest
ne might ask a colleague to change labels of treatments prior to analysis (e.g. A and B
d of high and low). But blind analysis could also involve different teams of researchers
ng their own statistical approaches to answer the question at hand (also called
sourcing [36]).” We have also added references for examples in physics (l. 292).
ition, crowdsourcing sometimes is used to refer to data gather, not only data analysis. We
ow clarified this in the main text and gave examples from the ecological literature (l. 292-
allacy of factorial design." (pp. 11-12) There are many questions in ecology and evolution which
be addressed by factorial design, necessarily being based on observations (e.g. phylogeny, and
eral perhaps the evolution of wild populations). Some attention could be given to these.
true. However, at the beginning of the manuscript, we stated that we do not see studies
on observation a barrier to use MH. In l. 84 we stated: “Here we exclude the common
ent that ecology and evolution are less prone to strong inference than molecular biology,
se of the need to rely on observational and comparative studies, which are not suitable for
inference [5–7]. Although this seemingly attractive argument has generated much debate
field [8,9], Chamberlain was a geologist and developed the method of multiple hypotheses
bservational data in mind. Therefore, it is reasonable to suppose that Chamberlain’s
d should also be appropriate for other areas of scientific inquiry in which controlled
ments are not readily available. In fact, we argue that it is the often observational nature of
ical and evolutionary research that makes the use of multiple hypotheses so important, as
of considering all plausible processes that might have produced the observed pattern.”
ugh not a law, this tension between new and old ideas essentially reflects a conflict between new
d generations." This is another rather inflammatory statement which requires further detail,
sion and references to the literature (beyond the single reference cited), and/or reference to
ual cases. Otherwise, counter-examples come to mind (e.g. Lamarck, who made his most major
utions as an older man).
ree with reviewer 2, and that is why we do not state this as a rule. We have now made this
clearer in the manuscript. We have also added a counter-example recently published in
e showing that important contributions can be made at any point of a researcher’s career
-336 and 338-339).
on trees (p. 13). Like crowdsourcing (above), this is intriguing but, if included, requires coverage
rther depth. How might a decision tree work for a particular example in ecology or evolution?
ould it compare to a more typical approach?
ve now provided an hypothetical example of how decision trees work (l. 350-358).
ore spending large amounts of money and years in the field." Again, some (hypothetical or real)
le seems necessary here, illustrating the tension between laboratory and field work.
ve now added an example to make this point clearer (l. 366-372).
The authors should clarify "alternative possible outcomes". For example, for continuous data (as
be used to estimate a mean), there are - in principle - infinite possible outcomes.
point. We have now explained that Platt gave special attention to the design of “alternatives
ucial experiments” that would exclude scientific hypothesis, not simply the design of any or
eriment designs and outcomes (l. 411-413)
d any clear motivation or hypothesis" (p. 21; also Figure 1 legend). Could this be rephrased or
ded? It comes across as a negative verdict on the quality of three papers, but without justification.
rs to me (without knowing the papers), they might have a strong implicit motivation that was
not covered in the paper itself (e.g. a genome sequencing project, to generate a widely usable
ce; other possibilities come to mind).
three papers focused on describing a pattern and thus lacked a hypothesis. Note that we do
e this as a criticism to more descriptive studies. We have now clarified this point in the
cript (l. 459-459 and 63-65).
ns and/or DOI for the papers analysed in Figure 1 should be included as a spreadsheet or table as
mentary data. Optionally, I would also like this table/spreadsheet to include the authors'
risation of the papers.
ve now provided all the papers and how we classified them in the electronic supplementary
ial.
1. Since these bars represent an estimate (being based on a random sample of literature), some
ion of the certainty of results or precision of estimates would be useful - whether in the figure,
or text.
point. We have now provided the bootstrapped 95% confidence interval in Figure 1 and
1.
*****************************************
l Name: Royal Society Open Science
l Code: RSOS
ISSN: 2054-5703
l Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
l Editor: Emilie Aime
l Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
ference Number: RSOS-160756
Status: SUBMITTED
yad ID: RSOS-160756
tle: Why are we not evaluating multiple competing hypotheses?
thors: Betini, Gustavo; Avgar, Tal; Fryxell, J
t Author: Gustavo Betini
t Author Email: gsbetini@gmail.com
t Author Address 1: 50 Stone Road East
t Author Address 2: Guelph, Ontario, N1G 2W1
t Author Address 3:
t Author City: Guelph
t Author State: Ontario
t Author Country: Canada
t Author ZIP/Postal Code: N1G 2W1
ords: Platt, Chamberlain, strong inference, model selection, scientific method
ct: The use of multiple working hypotheses to gain strong inference is widely promoted as a
to enhance the effectiveness of scientific investigation. Only 21 of a 100 randomly selected
from the ecological and evolutionary literature tested more than one hypothesis and only 8
more than two hypotheses. The surprising rarity of application of multiple working hypotheses
ts that this gap between theory and practice might reflect some fundamental issues. Here we
y several intellectual biases and practical barriers that discourage us from using multiple
eses in our scientific investigation. While scientists have developed a number of ways to avoid
such as the use of double-blind controls, we suspect that few scientists are fully aware of the
al influence of cognitive bias on their decisions and they have not yet adopted many techniques
le to overcome intellectual and practical barriers in order to improve scientific investigation.
yadContent
Society Open
