A model to identify urban traffic congestion hotspots in
complex networks
Albert Solé-Ribalta, Sergio Gómez and Alex Arenas
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160098.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160098
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 September 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160098.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this manuscript, Sole et al propose a model to find congestion hotspots in road traffic in an
urban environment. The model, inspired by previous works in congestion transitions in
computer networks, represents a nice translation of concepts and techniques from one area to
another. The manuscript is in general lines well written, although I have some comments on the
structure of the text. For these reasons, I recommend the publication of the manuscript once the
authors have considered the following comments and suggestions.
The model is an evolution of previously proposed works on traffic in computer networks. The
orientation has been focused on car traffic in cities, but as the authors recognize themselves it
would be valid to other transport modes or even car traffic in general, not necessarily internal to
urban areas. It could be important to stress this point out a little more in the introduction and the
conclusions. The reason for this is that after all the work in realistic models for traffic jams,
including those with real volume of cars, dispersion of speeds, traffic waves, etc, this model may
look an oversimplification of traffic. In my opinion, however, it brings a needed simplification in
some of these models but this question has to be very clear in the manuscript.
To establish also the questions that have been already analyzed in previous models on internet
traffic, it could be important to mention the differences between this model and those studied in
the literature in this context.
The structure of the manuscript is a little disturbing. The model is described in detail only in
materials and methods and, therefore, the reader finds the results in section 2.1 and 2.2 without
having a very clear idea of what all this is about. The readability would improve moving the
materials and methods section immediately after the introduction.
The term validation applied to the section 2.1 in the context of traffic models is usually applied to
test the model predictions against a data set different from that of training. Here it means more a
check of the theoretical predictions via numerical simulations. This can produce some confusion
depending on the background of the reader.
The name hotspot is used an indication of a congestion node. However, in recent literature about
urban systems this term has been used in a very different context as center of activity. It may be
important to include a short discussion about the relation and differences between these two
concepts.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this work, a very simple model of traffic congestion is proposed, Eqs. (2.1) and (2.2) + the
stationary hypothesis. Due to the simple form of kind of global coupling, Eq. (2.2), the model is
solvable by iterations for a given set of $P_{ji}$ and $p_i$. The resulting congestion transition
turns out to be continuous in contrast to majority of congestion models.
I like the idea of this model very much, Figure 1 clearly explains the contributions to (2.1). It is
valuable that the work contains not only solution of the model and its analysis for "synthetic"
networks, but also a thorough "congestion hotspot analysis" for a number of cities.
The manuscript is clear and well written. I have no essential remarks, and so I recommend that
this work be accepted as it is.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160098)
28-Aug-2016
Dear Dr Arenas
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160098
entitled "A model to identify urban traffic congestion hotspots in complex networks" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some
minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and
revise your manuscript.
4
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also
detail whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include
details of all permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This
section should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research
materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been
deposited in an external repository this section should list the database, accession number
and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data
sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be
appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or
modify your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160098
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’
Contributions section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The
list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2)
drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final
approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried
out the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the
study, coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final
approval for publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you
submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 06-Sep-2016). If you
do not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your
manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments
made by the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload".
You can use this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to
expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your
response to the referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your
user account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include
your data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the
relevant doi within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I
look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not
hesitate to get in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In this manuscript, Sole et al propose a model to find congestion hotspots in road traffic in
an urban environment. The model, inspired by previous works in congestion transitions in
computer networks, represents a nice translation of concepts and techniques from one area
to another. The manuscript is in general lines well written, although I have some comments
on the structure of the text. For these reasons, I recommend the publication of the
manuscript once the authors have considered the following comments and suggestions.
6
The model is an evolution of previously proposed works on traffic in computer networks.
The orientation has been focused on car traffic in cities, but as the authors recognize
themselves it would be valid to other transport modes or even car traffic in general, not
necessarily internal to urban areas. It could be important to stress this point out a little more
in the introduction and the conclusions. The reason for this is that after all the work in
realistic models for traffic jams, including those with real volume of cars, dispersion of
speeds, traffic waves, etc, this model may look an oversimplification of traffic. In my opinion,
however, it brings a needed simplification in some of these models but this question has to be
very clear in the manuscript.
To establish also the questions that have been already analyzed in previous models on
internet traffic, it could be important to mention the differences between this model and
those studied in the literature in this context.
The structure of the manuscript is a little disturbing. The model is described in detail only in
materials and methods and, therefore, the reader finds the results in section 2.1 and 2.2
without having a very clear idea of what all this is about. The readability would improve
moving the materials and methods section immediately after the introduction.
The term validation applied to the section 2.1 in the context of traffic models is usually
applied to test the model predictions against a data set different from that of training. Here it
means more a check of the theoretical predictions via numerical simulations. This can
produce some confusion depending on the background of the reader.
The name hotspot is used an indication of a congestion node. However, in recent literature
about urban systems this term has been used in a very different context as center of activity.
It may be important to include a short discussion about the relation and differences between
these two concepts.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In this work, a very simple model of traffic congestion is proposed, Eqs. (2.1) and (2.2) + the
stationary hypothesis. Due to the simple form of kind of global coupling, Eq. (2.2), the model
is solvable by iterations for a given set of $P_{ji}$ and $p_i$. The resulting congestion
transition turns out to be continuous in contrast to majority of congestion models.
I like the idea of this model very much, Figure 1 clearly explains the contributions to (2.1). It
is valuable that the work contains not only solution of the model and its analysis for
"synthetic" networks, but also a thorough "congestion hotspot analysis" for a number of cities.
The manuscript is clear and well written. I have no essential remarks, and so I recommend
that this work be accepted as it is.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160098)
See Appendix A.
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
In this manuscript, Sole et al propose a model to find congestion
spots in road traffic in an urban environment. The model, inspired by
vious works in congestion transitions in computer networks,
resents a nice translation of concepts and techniques from one area to
ther. The manuscript is in general lines well written, although I have some
ments on the structure of the text. For these reasons, I
ommend the publication of the manuscript once the authors have considered
following comments and suggestions.
The model is an evolution of previously proposed works on traffic in
puter networks. The orientation has been focused on car traffic in cities,
as the authors recognize themselves it would be valid to other
nsport modes or even car traffic in general, not necessarily internal to
an areas. It could be important to stress this point out a little more in
introduction and the conclusions. The reason for this is
t after all the work in realistic models for traffic jams, including those
h real volume of cars, dispersion of speeds, traffic waves, etc, this model
look an oversimplification of traffic. In my opinion, however, it
ngs a needed simplification in some of these models but this question has
be very clear in the manuscript.
To establish also the questions that have been already analyzed in
vious models on internet traffic, it could be important to mention the
ferences between this model and those studied in the literature in this
text.
The structure of the manuscript is a little disturbing. The model is
cribed in detail only in materials and methods and, therefore, the reader
ds the results in section 2.1 and 2.2 without having a
y clear idea of what all this is about. The readability would improve
ing the materials and methods section immediately after the introduction.
ONSE:
nks for your recommendations. We have rewritten some paragraphs of the
uscript to highlight these facts, and also re-organized the sections and
t as you suggested. Thanks a lot.
The term validation applied to the section 2.1 in the context of
ffic models is usually applied to test the model predictions against a data
different from that of training. Here it means more a check of the
oretical predictions via numerical simulations. This can produce some
fusion depending on the background of the reader.
The name hotspot is used an indication of a congestion node.
ever, in recent literature about urban systems this term has been used in a
y different context as center of activity. It may be important
include a short discussion about the relation and differences between these
concepts.
PONSE:
have clarified both terms in the new version of the manuscript. Thanks
in.
iewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
In this work, a very simple model of traffic congestion is proposed,
. (2.1) and (2.2) + the stationary hypothesis. Due to the simple form of
d of global coupling, Eq. (2.2), the model is solvable
iterations for a given set of $P_{ji}$ and $p_i$. The resulting congestion
nsition turns out to be continuous in contrast to majority of congestion
els.
I like the idea of this model very much, Figure 1 clearly explains
contributions to (2.1). It is valuable that the work contains not only
ution of the model and its analysis for "synthetic" networks, but also a
rough "congestion hotspot analysis" for a number of cities.
The manuscript is clear and well written. I have no essential
arks, and so I recommend that this work be accepted as it is.
ONSE:
nks for your assessment of the paper.
Society Open
