Emergence of intercolonial variation in termite shelter tube
patterns and prediction of its underlying mechanism
Nobuaki Mizumoto, Kazuya Kobayashi and Kenji Matsuura
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150360.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150360
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 July 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 October 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 October 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150360.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Daria Monaenkova)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Most of the available research is currently focused on the effect of soil properties on the nest
construction, for example Toffin (2010) or Monaenkova (2015). In this interesting and well-written
paper the authors have discussed the effect of variation in low-level individual responses to the
environment on the formation of the high level structures (nests). The experiments and the
simulations show similar resulting patterns. I encourage the authors to provide several
clarifications for the model:
1) The authors change the proportion of active workers in the simulations. Please, define
the activity. Also, at this point it is not clear what the role of inactive workers is.
2) The traffic situation on the construction site is not clear. Please, describe the initial
conditions of the simulation, particularly, the initial distribution of the excavating group on the
digging site. Is there a “source” of the material in the model?
3) In the model the “crowdedness” is reset at the end of each time step. Please, explain the
biological relevance of this choice.
4) Please, comment on how and if at all the model considers physical interactions between
workers.
5) Also, the authors are encouraged to provide video's of the simulated tunnel growth.
The general idea of the paper will be appealing for the large group of scientists working with
social insects. I recommend this paper for a publication after requested details on the model are
provided.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150360)
29-Sep-2015
Dear Dr Mizumoto
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150360 entitled
"Emergence of intercolonial variation in termite shelter tube patterns and prediction of its
underlying mechanism" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject
to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
3
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150360
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 08-Oct-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
4
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Sean Rands):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
My apologies for the delay in getting a decision to you. A new reviewer has commented on your
manuscript, and their review should be attached. I agree with the reviewer's comments, and like
this manuscript. I would like to give you the chance to respond to the comments in a revision.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Most of the available research is currently focused on the effect of soil properties on the nest
construction, for example Toffin (2010) or Monaenkova (2015). In this interesting and well-written
paper the authors have discussed the effect of variation in low-level individual responses to the
environment on the formation of the high level structures (nests). The experiments and the
simulations show similar resulting patterns. I encourage the authors to provide several
clarifications for the model:
1) The authors change the proportion of active workers in the simulations. Please, define
the activity. Also, at this point it is not clear what the role of inactive workers is.
2) The traffic situation on the construction site is not clear. Please, describe the initial
conditions of the simulation, particularly, the initial distribution of the excavating group on the
digging site. Is there a “source” of the material in the model?
3) In the model the “crowdedness” is reset at the end of each time step. Please, explain the
biological relevance of this choice.
4) Please, comment on how and if at all the model considers physical interactions between
workers.
5) Also, the authors are encouraged to provide video's of the simulated tunnel growth.
5
The general idea of the paper will be appealing for the large group of scientists working with
social insects. I recommend this paper for a publication after requested details on the model are
provided.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150360
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150360
MS Title: Emergence of intercolonial variation in termite shelter tube patterns and prediction of
its underlying mechanism
MS Authors: Mizumoto, Nobuaki; Kobayashi, Kazuya; Matsuura, Kenji
Contact Author: Nobuaki Mizumoto
Contact Author Email: mizumoto.nobuaki.75a@st.kyoto-u.ac.jp
Contact Author Address 1: Oiwakecho, Kitashirakawa
Contact Author Address 2: Sakyo-ku
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Kyoto
Contact Author State: Kyoto
Contact Author Country: Japan
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 606-8502
Keywords: collective behaviour, self-organization, colony variation, nest building, stigmergy,
social insects
Abstract: Building behaviours occur in various organisms from bacteria to humans. Social insects
build various structures such as large nests and underground galleries, achieved by self-
organisation. Structures built by social insects have recently been demonstrated to vary widely in
size and shape within a species, even under the same environmental conditions. However, little is
known about how intraspecific variation in structures emerges from collective behaviours. Here
we show that the colony variation of structures can be generated by simply changing two
behavioural parameters of group members, even with the same building algorithm. Our
laboratory experiment of termite shelter tube construction demonstrated clear intercolonial
variation, and a two-dimensional lattice model showed that it can be attributed to the extent of
positive feedback and the number of individuals engaged in building. This study contributes to
explaining the great diversity of structures emerging from collective building in social insects.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150360)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
October 1, 2015
Manuscript ID: RSOS-150360
Title:
Emergence of intercolonial variation in termite shelter tube patterns and
prediction of its underlying mechanism
Author: N. Mizumoto*, K Kobayashi and K. Matsuura
Dear Emilie Aime
Thank you for your letter of September 29, 2015. We were very pleased to
hear that the reviewer and the editor viewed this paper favorably and that it
can be accepted after minor revision. We found all of the comments and
suggestions of the reviewer to be most helpful and have revised the
manuscript accordingly.
Please find below a detailed explanation of how we have dealt with the
reviewer’s comments. In the revised manuscript, we highlighted the changed
parts in yellow. Here we respond to each comment and suggestion:
Reviewer's Comments:
Comment 1: The authors change the proportion of active workers in the
simulations. Please, define the activity. Also, at this point it is not clear what
the role of inactive workers is.
Reply: As suggested, we added the sentence to clarify the definition of the
activity and that the role of inactive workers (P10L166-168).
Comment 2: The traffic situation on the construction site is not clear. Please,
describe the initial conditions of the simulation, particularly, the initial
distribution of the excavating group on the digging site. Is there a “source”
of the material in the model?
Reply: Following the comments, we added the sentences to describe the
initial conditions of the simulations and the source of the materials (P10L163-
165, P10L168-170).
Comment 3: In the model the “crowdedness” is reset at the end of each time
step. Please, explain the biological relevance of this choice.
Reply: As suggested, we added the explanation of why the crowdedness is
reset (PL14L238-240).
Comment 4: Please, comment on how and if at all the model considers
physical interactions between workers.
Reply: As suggested, we added the sentence to clarify that the effect of
crowdedness is assumed to be the only assumption of physical interaction
between workers in our simulations (P14L240-241).
Comment 5: Also, the authors are encouraged to provide video's of the
simulated tunnel growth.
Reply: As reviewer suggested, we provided the videos of the typical growth
patterns of structures in ESM (P15L250-252, video S2V and S3V).
We thank you for your agreement that the manuscript is now ready for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Sincerely yours,
Nobuaki Mizumoto
Laboratory of Insect Ecology,
Graduate School of Agriculture
Kyoto University
Oiwakecho, Kitashirakawa, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, JAPAN
Email: mizumoto.nobuaki.75a@st.kyoto-u.ac.jp
Tel & Fax: +81-75-753-6147
Society Open
