Effects of cell-cycle-dependent expression on random
fluctuations in protein levels
Mohammad Soltani and Abhyudai Singh
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160578.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160578
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 August 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160578.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Authors have done all recommended changes. Paper is ready for publication.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See the attached file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160578)
04-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Singh
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160578 entitled
"Effects of cell-cycle dependent expression on random fluctuations in protein levels" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
3
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160578
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
4
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Nov-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Anne Donaldson
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Authors have done all recommended changes. Paper is ready for publication.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See the attached file (Appendix A).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160578)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160578.R1)
10-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Singh,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Effects of cell-cycle dependent
expression on random fluctuations in protein levels" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of
your paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this
email with the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read
your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Referee’s report on Effects of cell-cycle dependent expression on ran-
dom fluctuations in protein levels by M. Soltani and A. Singh
The manuscript concerns a stochastic model for gene expression which incorporates burst-like
synthesis of protein, fluctuations in cell-cycle length, as well as random partitioning of protein
molecules from a mother into daughter cells. The authors obtain explicit expressions for the
protein mean and protein variability, and develop a methodology for isolating the “intrisic”
protein-level noise from the “extrinsic” cell-cycle noise.
• Equation 19. Is it a good idea to call this ratio a coefficient of variation when the mean
square in the numerator is taken from a different variable than the squared mean in the
denominator?
• Page 8, Line 45–46. The author’s comment about how intrinsic noise is measured suggests
that there is an alternative way of deriving (22): instead of x(t) and z(t) one would consider
x1 (t) and x2 (t) and then calculate their covariance. It’s not immediately clear to me if the
two approaches give the same results: would the authors perhaps care to expand on it?
• Appendix A, Equation A.2. It would be helpful to explain explicitly the meaning of the
symbol <U+2206><U+03D5> (lest a non-expert should start calculating the Laplace operator). Also, at
the risk of sounding too pedantic, the function <U+03C8>(x, ci ) should presumably read <U+03C8>(x, c) =
<U+03C8>(x, c1 , . . . , cn ) (otherwise there would seemingly be no coupling between the individual
ci ’s).
• Page 9, Line 18. “set” <U+2192> “set of”
• Page 11, Line 9. “remained” <U+2192> “remainder”
Equation 4.4. Is it a good idea to call this ratio a coefficient of variation when the mean square in the
numerator is taken from a different variable than the squared mean in the denominator?
Response: We are thankful to the reviewer for raising this concern. In order to avoid
any confusion, now we use the notation <U+03B7> instead of CV 2 in the whole paper and
supplementary information
Page 6, after equation (4.5). The author’s comment about how intrinsic noise is measured suggests
that there is an alternative way of deriving (4.7): instead of x (t) and z(t) one would consider x1 (t)
and x2 (t) and then calculate their covariance. It’s not immediately clear to me if the two approaches
give the same results: would the authors perhaps care to expand on it?
We thank the reviewer for raising this point. Now we add a new appendix (Ap-
pendix C) to show that equation (4.5) is equivalent of calculating intrinsic noise
based on two-color assay. Consider two identical proteins x1 and x2 which their
dynamics are exactly the same as protein x in the main article. Intrinsic noise based
on two-color assay can be derived as
h x12 i - h x1 x2 i
<U+03B7>= , (1)
h x1 i2
[1]. In Appendix C we proved that
h x2 i h y2 i h x12 i - h x1 x2 i
<U+03B7>= 2
- 2
= . (2)
hxi hyi h x1 i2
We also point this approach in the main article after equation (4.5) ”The results
derived here can also be obtained by performing two-color assay (see Appendix C
in SI)."
[1] A. Singh and M. Soltani, Quantifying intrinsic and extrinsic variability in stochas-
tic gene expression models, PLOS ONE, vol. 8, p. e84301, 2013.
(lest a non-expert should start calculating the Laplace operator). Also, at the risk of sounding too
pedantic, the function <U+03C8>( x, ci ) should presumably read <U+03C8>( x, c) = <U+03C8>( x, c1 , . . . , cn ) (otherwise there
would seemingly be no coupling between the individual ci ’s).
Response: Now we use the notation <U+03C8>( x, c) = <U+03C8>( x, c1 , . . . , cn ) and we define <U+2206><U+03D5>
anywhere that we used it (Appendix A-D).
Page 9, Line 18. ”set" <U+2192> ”set of"
Page 11, Line 9. ”remained" <U+2192> ”remainder” .
Response: We fixed these typos.
Society Open
