Computational exploration of the reaction mechanism of the
Cu+-catalysed synthesis of indoles from N-aryl enaminones
Carlos E. P. Bernardo and Pedro J. Silva
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150582.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150582
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 October 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 January 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150582.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The authors provide their supporting information mainly in form of excel tables. While this
certainly provides many details, it is also quite difficult to follow.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The proposed mechanism clearly has too high energy barriers to be considered as operative in the
reaction. Thus, either the right mechanism has not been found, or the computational approach
used is not appropriate for the system.
Also, the presentation of the results is not very clear. Providing ball&stick figures also for
intermediates would help. The discussion about the reduction of copper is very confused.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Wei Guan)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
YES
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
P.J. Silva et al report a theoretical mechanistic study of t the Cu+-catalyzed synthesis of indoles
from Naryl enaminones. In spite of the failure of explaining why o-brominated substrate fails to
lose its halogen in the presence of a Li+ counteraction. of the proposed mechanism, their
calculations showed a relative success of the proposed mechanism. The preceding results
highlight a dual role for the Cu+(phen) catalyst in this indole synthesis: on the one hand, its
coordination to the deprotonated eneaminone is required to facilitate the deprotonation of the
ketone a-carbon, yielding the carbanion that attacks the C2-position of the aryl moiety; on the
other hand, Cu+ acts as the acceptor of the hydride ejected by the aryl C2-carbon in the re-
aromatization step. The manuscript is clear and well written, and could deserve publication.
However, I would like to suggest the authors to afford the most favorable mechanism path
including a full catalytic cycle.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150582)
21-Dec-2015
Dear Dr Silva
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150582 entitled
"Computational exploration of the reaction mechanism of the Cu+-catalyzed synthesis of indoles
from N-aryl enaminones" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject
to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150582
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
4
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is usually a condition of publication that you
submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. However as the Royal Society is
closed for the Christmas break, the deadline for this manuscript is the 11th of January. Please let
us know if you will have any problems meeting this deadline.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Anthony Stace
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150582)
We thank both reviewers for their helpful comments, which have been addressed as follows:
Reviewer 1: "Also, the presentation of the results is not very clear. Providing ball&stick figures
also for intermediates would help. The discussion about the reduction of copper is very confused.
" We fear that inclusion of the intermediates structure would not be as helpful as the reviewer
suggests, due to the difficulty of finding good, unobstructed, viewing angles of those
intermediates. Three-dimensional manipulation of the structures (which are provided as
Supporting Information) by the reader is possible, and is much clearer and less confusing than
"navigating" between 2-D images taken from widely disparate angles. We expect that, with the
inclusion of the new scheme requested be reviewer 2, the relationship between the depicted
transition states and the correponding intermediates is clarified. We have slightly tuned the text
on the reduction of copper to improve readability. The paragraph which discusses alternative
mechanisms has been improved.
Reviewer 2: "P.J. Silva et al report a theoretical mechanistic study of t the Cu+-catalyzed synthesis
of indoles from Naryl enaminones. In spite of the failure of explaining why o-brominated
substrate fails to lose its halogen in the presence of a Li+ counteraction. of the proposed
mechanism, their calculations showed a relative success of the proposed mechanism. The
preceding results highlight a dual role for the Cu+(phen) catalyst in this indole synthesis: on the
one hand, its coordination to the deprotonated eneaminone is required to facilitate the
deprotonation of the ketone a-carbon, yielding the carbanion that attacks the C2-position of the
aryl moiety; on the other hand, Cu+ acts as the acceptor of the hydride ejected by the aryl C2-
carbon in the re-aromatization step. The manuscript is clear and well written, and could deserve
publication. However, I would like to suggest the authors to afford the most favorable
mechanism path including a full catalytic cycle. " We have included a new scheme, as requested.
Society Open
