Untargeted metabolomics profiles delineate metabolic
alterations in mouse plasma during lung carcinoma
development using UPLC-QTOF/MS in MSE mode
Huan Wu, Yang Chen, Zegeng Li and Xianhua Liu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 181143.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.181143
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 July 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180583.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors stated that they investigated plasma metabolite changes during lung carcinoma
progression in mouse model using UPLC-QTOF/MS. However, metabolic alterations during
lung carcinoma development should be more suitable for the tile and contents, as only two time
points (7 and 14 DPI) were explored and there were lack of staging information, as progression is
more related to pathologic stages. In addition, the results did not support the conclusion well, as
there is no evidence in the results to show the biomarkers potential for monitoring cancer
diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic efficacy. Possibly, some potential for diagnosis, but needs
to be verified in clinical trials.
Other comments:
1, E represent collision energy should be “represents”.
2, Table 1 and Figure S1 are duplicate. The sarcoma pictures of 7 and 14 DPI are recommended to
be shown in Figure S1.
3, In table 2 and in the text, please add a note for the AUC values, whether it from the
comparisons between 7 DPI and control, or between 14 DPI and controls.
4, Figure 1 contains less valuable information, can be moved to the supplementary. In contrast,
Figure S1 can be moved into the main text.
5, Figure 2c, QC samples in negative model is not well grouped, which means the data quality is
not well reliable. Please explain?
6, in section 3.5, the paragraph is about metabolic variations between 7 and 14 DPI, but some
figures indicated are not related to this topic such as figure 3, as below.
As the sarcoma grows, 14 and 12 differential metabolites were screened in positive and negative-
ion mode between 7 DPI and 14 DPI group, respectively. The scores plots of OPLSDA model
discriminated the 14 DPI group from 7 DPI group in positive (Figure 3A and 3D) and negative
ion mode (Figure S2 A and D), which shown satisfactory classification, implying that the
differential metabolites contributed to the good separation. The differential metabolites were
visualized and filtered by the S-plots (Figure 3 B,E and Figure S2 B,E) and loading-plots (Figure 3
C,F and Figure S2 C,F) in both ion modes, respectively. The heat maps also shown that the
plasma metabolic states of 14 DPI group mice deviated significantly from 7 DPI in the positive
(Figure 4B) and negative-ion mode (Figure 4D), respectively.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Untargeted metabolomics profiles delineate metabolic alterations
in mouse plasma during lung carcinoma progression using UPLCQTOF/MS in MSE mode
Overall this is a very interesting bit of work with a lot of analysis conducted. I have five main
concerns which should be addressed.
1] The English is not suitable for publication and would need a thorough re-write. (it is not
incomprehensible but needs improvement)
2] There is no real explanation of the use of the Lewis Lung cancer carcinoma model. Why was
this one selected. What is the effect of a xenograft model - could this not be the reason for changes
in remodelling type metabolites. What was the control???
3] How was the LC-MS analysis done. Were the samples sequentially run through the groups or
was it randomised?? If not randomised how do you account for any "drift" throughout the
sample set??
4] The negative ion data nicely clusters. Why does the positive ion not do the same?
5] You don't really show convincingly the changes in metabolites from control to 7day to 14 day.
A line chart could have done this rather then HC??
Minor issues
pg1 line 25 – word reliable
line 26 (E represents collision energy)?? DIA?
Line 53 sentence “Up to date…. ” needs rewriting
Page 3 line 3 2nd column Lording to be replaced with loadings
Page 4 line 3 2nd column. Matrixes should be matrices
Could you clarify if you ran the samples in sequence with intermittent QCs or you randomised
the samples?
Figure 3 legend “Lording” error (x2) again
Figure 4 How are the HC figures generated??
Figure 6 legend matabolites should be metabolites
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180583.R0)
04-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Li:
Manuscript ID RSOS-180583 entitled "Untargeted metabolomics profiles delineate metabolic
4
alterations in mouse plasma during lung carcinoma progression using UPLC-QTOF/MS in MSE
mode" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments
from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 02-Dec-2018. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof. Catrin Pritchard (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Editor comments:
Please ensure that you seek advice from a language polishing service
(https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/language-polishing/) or a native speaker of English
(and provide evidence that you have done either) before resubmitting.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors stated that they investigated plasma metabolite changes during lung carcinoma
progression in mouse model using UPLC-QTOF/MS. However, metabolic alterations during
5
lung carcinoma development should be more suitable for the tile and contents, as only two time
points (7 and 14 DPI) were explored and there were lack of staging information, as progression is
more related to pathologic stages. In addition, the results did not support the conclusion well, as
there is no evidence in the results to show the biomarkers potential for monitoring cancer
diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic efficacy. Possibly, some potential for diagnosis, but needs
to be verified in clinical trials.
Other comments:
1, E represent collision energy should be “represents”.
2, Table 1 and Figure S1 are duplicate. The sarcoma pictures of 7 and 14 DPI are recommended to
be shown in Figure S1.
3, In table 2 and in the text, please add a note for the AUC values, whether it from the
comparisons between 7 DPI and control, or between 14 DPI and controls.
4, Figure 1 contains less valuable information, can be moved to the supplementary. In contrast,
Figure S1 can be moved into the main text.
5, Figure 2c, QC samples in negative model is not well grouped, which means the data quality is
not well reliable. Please explain?
6, in section 3.5, the paragraph is about metabolic variations between 7 and 14 DPI, but some
figures indicated are not related to this topic such as figure 3, as below.
As the sarcoma grows, 14 and 12 differential metabolites were screened in positive and negative-
ion mode between 7 DPI and 14 DPI group, respectively. The scores plots of OPLSDA model
discriminated the 14 DPI group from 7 DPI group in positive (Figure 3A and 3D) and negative
ion mode (Figure S2 A and D), which shown satisfactory classification, implying that the
differential metabolites contributed to the good separation. The differential metabolites were
visualized and filtered by the S-plots (Figure 3 B,E and Figure S2 B,E) and loading-plots (Figure 3
C,F and Figure S2 C,F) in both ion modes, respectively. The heat maps also shown that the
plasma metabolic states of 14 DPI group mice deviated significantly from 7 DPI in the positive
(Figure 4B) and negative-ion mode (Figure 4D), respectively.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Untargeted metabolomics profiles delineate metabolic alterations
in mouse plasma during lung carcinoma progression using UPLCQTOF/MS in MSE mode
Overall this is a very interesting bit of work with a lot of analysis conducted. I have five main
concerns which should be addressed.
1] The English is not suitable for publication and would need a thorough re-write. (it is not
incomprehensible but needs improvement)
2] There is no real explanation of the use of the Lewis Lung cancer carcinoma model. Why was
this one selected. What is the effect of a xenograft model - could this not be the reason for changes
in remodelling type metabolites. What was the control???
3] How was the LC-MS analysis done. Were the samples sequentially run through the groups or
was it randomised?? If not randomised how do you account for any "drift" throughout the
sample set??
4] The negative ion data nicely clusters. Why does the positive ion not do the same?
5] You don't really show convincingly the changes in metabolites from control to 7day to 14 day.
A line chart could have done this rather then HC??
Minor issues
pg1 line 25 – word reliable
line 26 (E represents collision energy)?? DIA?
6
Line 53 sentence “Up to date…. ” needs rewriting
Page 3 line 3 2nd column Lording to be replaced with loadings
Page 4 line 3 2nd column. Matrixes should be matrices
Could you clarify if you ran the samples in sequence with intermittent QCs or you randomised
the samples?
Figure 3 legend “Lording” error (x2) again
Figure 4 How are the HC figures generated??
Figure 6 legend matabolites should be metabolites
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180583.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-181143.R0
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
None
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-181143.R0)
20-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Li,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Untargeted metabolomics profiles
delineate metabolic alterations in mouse plasma during lung carcinoma development using
UPLC-QTOF/MS in MSE mode" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
You have the opportunity to archive your accepted, unbranded manuscript, but access to the full
text must be embargoed until publication.
Articles are normally press released. For this to be effective we set an embargo on news coverage
corresponding to the publication date of the article. We request that news media and the authors
do not publish stories ahead of this embargo (when final version of the article is available).
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
on behalf of Prof. Catrin Pritchard (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
None
Appendix A
Dear professor Thadcha Retneswaran, Catrin Pritchard and reviewers:
Thank you for your comments on our manuscript entitled “Untargeted
metabolomics profiles delineate metabolic alterations in mouse plasma during
lung carcinoma development using UPLC-QTOF/MS in MSE mode” (Manuscript
ID: RSOS-180583). The comments are all valuable and very helpful for revising
and improving our paper. We have revised the manuscript accordingly, and the
amendments are highlighted in red in the marked-up manuscript. The responses
to the reviewers' comments are listed below:
Response to editor:
Question: 1) “Please ensure that you seek advice from a language polishing
service (https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/language-polishing/) or a
native speaker of English (and provide evidence that you have done either)
before resubmitting.”
Answer: Thank you for your valuable suggestion. We have checked the
manuscript carefully and seeked advice from a language polishing service
(https://secure.aje.com; Certificate Verification Key:
6F40-AB89-AE2F-2B4D-2C4C). The amendments are highlighted in red in the
marked-up manuscript. The details are as follows:
In the section of the title:
“progression” has been modified to “development”.
In the section of the abstract:
In line 1 of the abstract, “a reliable untargeted metabolomic method” has been
modified to “an untargeted metabolomic method”.
In line 1 of the abstract, “ultra-high performance” has been modified to
“ultra-high-performance”.
In line 2 of the abstract, “represent” has been modified to “represents”.
In line 2 of the abstract, “interrogate” has been modified to “determine”.
In line 3 of the abstract, “mouse” has been modified to “mice”.
In line 3 of the abstract, “during lung carcinoma onset and development” has
been modified to “during the onset and development of lung carcinoma”.
In line 5 of the abstract, “day post inoculation (DPI)” has been modified to “days
post-inoculation (DPI)”.
In line 6 of the abstract, “sulfate” has been modified to “sulphate”.
In line 9 of the abstract, “the” has been added in the sentence.
In line 10 of the abstract, “day post inoculation” has been modified to “DPI”.
In line 10 of the abstract, “were” has been deleted.
In line 11 of the abstract, “progression” has been modified to “development”.
In line 11 of the abstract, “involved in metabolism of glycerophospholipid” has
been modified to “were involved in the metabolism of glycerophospholipid”.
In line 14 of the abstract, “during lung carcinoma onset and development” has
been modified to “during the onset and development of lung carcinoma”.
In the section of instruction:
In the first paragraph of the instruction:
In line 2 of the first paragraph, “of” has been modified to “was”.
In line 5 of the first paragraph, “in early stage, operable” has been modified to
“in the early operable stage”.
In line 6 of the first paragraph, “tumor spread distantly” has been modified to
“tumour spreads to distant sites”.
In line 7 of the first paragraph, “clinical” has been deleted.
In line 9 of the first paragraph, “guides” has been modified to “guide”.
In line 9 of the first paragraph, the sentence of “Up to date, the diagnosis is
mainly depends on the clinical symptoms and detection frequently occurred at
an advanced stage, thus lead to a very poor prognosis.” has been modified to
“Currently, diagnosis is mainly depends on the clinical symptoms, and detection
frequently occurs at an advanced stage, thus leading to a very poor prognosis.”.
In line 12 of the first paragraph, the sentence of “If the diagnosis could be
transferred to earlier stages, then the overall morbidity and mortality could be
dramatically change.” has been modified to “If diagnosis could be accomplished
in earlier stages, the overall morbidity and mortality would dramatically
change.”.
In the second paragraph of the instruction:
In line 5 of the second paragraph, the sentence of “limitations in resources
available, expect to identify more precise risk profiles,” has been modified to
“limitations in the resources available to identify more precise risk profiles,”.
In line 10 of the second paragraph, “for” has been modified to “at risk of”.
In line 11 of the second paragraph, “clinically” has been modified to “clinical”.
In the third paragraph of the instruction:
In line 5 of the third paragraph, “low-molecular weight” has been modified to
“low-molecular-weight”.
In line 6 of the third paragraph, “which” has been modified to “that”.
In line 13 of the third paragraph, “High” has been modified to “high”.
In line 18 of the third paragraph, “analyzers” has been modified to “analysers”.
In the fourth paragraph of the instruction:
In line 2 of the fourth paragraph, “there still lacks” has been modified to “there
is still a lack of”.
In line 4 of the fourth paragraph, “lung carcinoma onset and development” has
been modified to “the onset and development of lung carcinoma”.
In line 6 of the fourth paragraph, “insights” has been deleted.
In line 7-8 of the fourth paragraph, “to the detection of lung carcinoma onset
and development” has been modified to “for the detection of the onset and
development of lung carcinoma”.
In line 14 of the fourth paragraph, “pathophysiology” has been modified to
“pathophysiological”.
In line 16 of the fourth paragraph, “high” has been modified to “high-”.
In line 21 of the fourth paragraph, “the” has been deleted.
In line 23 of the fourth paragraph, “analysis on the basis of” has been modified
to “the analysis based on the”.
In line 24 of the fourth paragraph, “be” has been added.
In line 25 of the fourth paragraph, “the” has been deleted.
In line 26 of the fourth paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 28 of the fourth paragraph, “the” has been added.
In the section of experimental procedure:
“2.2 Tumour strain”:
In line 1 of the paragraph, “tumor” has been modified to “tumour”.
In line 2 of the paragraph, “cell repository in biological sciences institute” has
been modified to “the cell repository in the Biological Sciences Institute”.
In line 3 of the paragraph, “dulbecco’s modified eagle’s” has been modified to
“Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s”.
“2.3 Animal model”:
In line 3 of the paragraph, “animal care and use Committee” has been modified
to “Animal Care and Use Committee”.
In line 8 of the paragraph, “20±0.5°Con reverse” has been modified to
“20±0.5°C on a reverse”.
In line 11 of the paragraph, “initial the experiment” has been modified to “the
initial experiment”.
In line 12 of the paragraph, “tumor” has been modified to “tumours”.
In line 16 of the paragraph, “7 day” has been modified to “a 7-day”.
In line 17 of the paragraph, “14 day” has been modified to “14-day”.
In line 18 of the paragraph, “vernier” has been modified to “Vernier”.
“2.4 Sample collection and preparationl”:
In line 1 of the first paragraph, “10” has been modified to “Ten”.
In line 2 of the first paragraph, “anesthetized” has been modified to
“anaesthetized”.
In line 3 of the first paragraph, “retro-orbital” has been modified to “the
retro-orbital area”.
In line 7 of the first paragraph, “and” has been added.
In line 10 of the first paragraph, “every test samples” has been modified to
“each test sample”.
In line 2 of the second paragraph, “fraction” has been modified to “fractions”.
In line 4 of the second paragraph, “A total of” has been modified to “Then,”.
In line 8 of the second paragraph, “0.22µm” has been modified to “0.22 µm”.
In line 8 of the second paragraph, “2 µL” has been modified to “2-µL”.
“2.6 Data processing and analysis”:
In line 1 of the first paragraph, “by” has been deleted.
In line 3 of the first paragraph, “a” has been deleted.
In line 6 of the first paragraph, “including” has been modified to “Included”.
In line 7 of the first paragraph, “experiment” has been modified to
“experimental”.
In line 8 of the first paragraph, “identify” has been modified to “the
identification of”.
In line 10 of the first paragraph, “characterization of” has been modified to
“characterize”.
In line 10 of the first paragraph, “The” has been added.
In line 8 of the second paragraph, “which” has been deleted.
In line 1 of the third paragraph, “loading” has been modified to “loadings”.
In line 1 of the third paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 2 of the third paragraph, “visualization of” has been modified to
“visualize”.
In line 6 of the third paragraph, “for” has been modified to “into”.
In line 9 of the third paragraph, “significant” has been modified to
“significance”.
In line 9 of the third paragraph, “significant” has been modified to
“significance”.
In line 1 of the fourth paragraph, “In order to” has been modified to “To”.
In line 2 of the fourth paragraph, “were” has been modified to “was”.
In line 3 of the fourth paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 5 of the fourth paragraph, “the” has been added.
In the section of “Results and discussion”:
“3.1 Characteristics of Lewis lung carcinoma mice”:
In line 1 of the paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 3 of the paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 5 of the paragraph, “tumor” has been modified to “tumours”.
In line 6 of the paragraph, “the” has been added.
“3.3 Technical reproducibility of the analytical approach”:
In line 2 of the first paragraph, “importance as a guarantee for more reliable
results.” has been modified to “important to guarantee more reliable results.”.
In line 2 of the first paragraph, “In order to assure” has been modified to “To
ensure”.
In line 5 of the first paragraph, “quality guarantee method” has been modified
to “method to guarantee quality”.
In line 6 of the first paragraph, “provide a number of merits” has been modified
to “has a number of merits”.
In line 7 of the first paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 7 of the first paragraph, “offer” has been modified to “offering”.
In line 8 of the first paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 1 of the second paragraph, “process” has been modified to “processing”.
In line 2 of the second paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 4 of the second paragraph, “of” has been added.
In line 5 of the second paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 8 of the second paragraph, “scores” has been modified to “score”.
In line 9 and line 11 of the second paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 16 of the second paragraph, “a” has been added.
In line 16 of the second paragraph, “to” has been modified to “toward”.
In line 21 of the second paragraph, “can be seen as” has been modified to “is”.
In line 25 of the second paragraph, “scores” has been modified to “score”.
In line 26 of the second paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 27 of the second paragraph, “as” has been deleted.
“3.4 Metabolic alterations between model mice and controls at 7 DPI”:
In line 2 of the paragraph, “health” has been modified to “healthy”.
In line 3 of the paragraph, “analyzed” has been modified to “analysed”.
In line 4 of the paragraph, “as” has been deleted.
In line 7 of the paragraph, “a” has been added.
In line 9 of the paragraph, “the” has been deleted.
In line 12 of the paragraph, “where” has been deleted.
In line 13 of the paragraph, “that” has been added.
In line 19 of the paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 21 of the paragraph, “13” has been modified to “Thirteen”.
In line 23 of the paragraph, “the” has been added.
“3.5 Metabolic variations in model mice between 7 DPI and 14 DPI”:
In line 1 of the first paragraph, “grows” has been modified to “grew”.
In line 3 of the first paragraph, “group” has been modified to “groups”.
In line 3 of the first paragraph, “scores” has been modified to “score”.
In line 3 and line 4 of the first paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 6 and line 11 of the first paragraph, “shown” has been modified to
“showed”.
In line 3 of the second paragraph, “the two time points” has been modified to
“the time points”.
In line 11 of the second paragraph, “seeking” has been deleted.
In line 18 of the second paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 18 of the second paragraph, “analysis” has been modified to “analyse”.
In line 19 of the second paragraph, “the” has been deleted.
In line 19 of the second paragraph, “As” has been modified to “as”.
“3.6 Identification of potential biomarkers”:
In line 2 of the first paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 8 of the first paragraph, “values of” has been added.
In line 2 of the second paragraph, “appraise” has been modified to “evaluate”.
In line 2 of the second paragraph, “biomarkers combination” has been modified
to “combination of biomarkers”.
In line 5 of the second paragraph, “built-in” has been modified to “built-ins”.
In line 7 and line 10 of the second paragraph, “the” has been deleted.
“3.7 Biological information of biomarkers for Lewis lung carcinoma”:
In line 1 of the first paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 2 of the first paragraph, “us” has been added.
In line 3 of the first paragraph, “help to effectively screen” has been modified to
“facilitate the effective screening of”.
In line 4 of the first paragraph, “stage” has been modified to “stages”.
In line 5 of the first paragraph, “attempt” has been deleted.
In line 2 and line 4 of the second paragraph, “tumor” has been modified to
“tumours”.
In line 3, line 6 and line 8 of the second paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 5 of the second paragraph, “generate” has been modified to
“generating”.
In line 6 of the second paragraph, “cell” has been modified to “cells”.
In line 6 of the second paragraph, “glycerin” has been modified to “glycerine”.
In line 7 of the second paragraph, “glycerophospholipid” has been modified to
“glycerophospholipids”.
In line 10 of the second paragraph, “were” has been added.
In line 15 of the second paragraph, “wherwas” has been deleted.
In line 20 of the second paragraph, “form of free” has been modified to “free
form”.
In line 20 of the second paragraph, “and” has been added.
In line 24 of the second paragraph, “be attributed to tumor” has been modified
to “be because the tumour”.
In line 25 of the second paragraph, “inhibit” has been modified to “inhibited”.
In line 1 of the third paragraph, “component” has been modified to
“components”.
In line 2 of the third paragraph, “signaling” has been modified to “signalling”.
In line 2 of the fourth paragraph, “which is” has been deleted.
In line 3 of the fourth paragraph, “or” has been deleted.
In line 5 of the fourth paragraph, “decreased” has been modified to “decrease”.
In line 7 of the fourth paragraph, “tumor” has been modified to “the tumour”.
In line 2 of the fifth paragraph, “Stearoylglycerophosphoinositol belongs” has
been modified to “stearoylglycerophosphoinositol belong”.
In line 4 of the fifth paragraph, “glycercophosphoinositols” has been modified
to “glycophosphoinositols”.
In line 6 of the fifth paragraph, “belongs” has been modified to “belong”.
In line 8 of the fifth paragraph, “a” has been added”.
In line 10 of the fifth paragraph, “are” has been added”.
In line 12 of the fifth paragraph, “decreased” has been modified to “decrease”.
In line 13 of the fifth paragraph, “1-Palmitoylglycerophosphoinositol,
2-Stearoylglycerophosphoinosito” has been modified to
“1-palmitoylglycerophosphoinositol, 2-stearoylglycerophosphoinosito”.
In line 16 of the fifth paragraph, “tumor may dysregulated the fatty acid
metabolism” has been modified to “the tumour dysregulate fatty acid
metabolism”.
In line 1, line 6, line 9 and line 12 of the sixth paragraph, “sulfate” has been
modified to “sulphate”.
In line 2 of the sixth paragraph, “the” has been added.
In line 2 of the sixth paragraph, “stable function on” has been modified to
“stable functions in”.
In line 5 of the sixth paragraph, “In the previous metabolomic study shown” has
been modified to “A previous metabolomic study showed”.
In line 7 of the sixth paragraph, “also can” has been modified to “can also”.
In line 11 of the sixth paragraph, “tumor” has been modified to “tumour”.
In line 13-14 of the sixth paragraph, “differentiation and proliferation of tumor
cell” has been modified to “the differentiation and proliferation of tumour
cells”.
In the section of “Conclusions”:
In line 7 of the paragraph, “lung carcinoma onset and development” has been
modified to “onset and development of lung carcinoma”.
In line 10 of the paragraph, “the” has been added.
Response to Reviewer #1:
Comment: 1) “Metabolic alterations during lung carcinoma development
should be more suitable for the tile and contents, as only two time points (7 and
14 DPI) were explored and there were lack of staging information, as
progression is more related to pathologic stages.”
Answer: Thank you for your valuable suggestion. We have checked the
manuscript carefully and corrected “progression” to “development” in the title,
abstract and text. The amendments are highlighted in red in the marked-up
manuscript.
Comment: 2) “In addition, the results did not support the conclusion well, as
there is no evidence in the results to show the biomarkers potential for
monitoring cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic efficacy. Possibly, some
potential for diagnosis, but needs to be verified in clinical trials.”
Answer: Thank you for your comment. We have deleted the sentence “It was
demonstrated that the untargeted metabonomics method based on
UPLC-QTOF/MS in MSE mode was a feasible approach for providing endogenous
biomarkers to monitor cancer diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic efficacy” in
the abstract, and modified the sentence “Collectively, the present study
delineates distinct metabolic perturbations linked to onset and progresses of
lung carcinoma which may elucidate possible biological mechanisms of the
disease and provide endogenous biomarkers for monitoring cancer diagnosis,
prognosis and therapeutic efficacy” to “Collectively, the present study
delineates distinct metabolic perturbations linked to onset and development of
lung carcinoma which may elucidate possible biological mechanisms of the
disease” in the conclusion.
Comment: 3) “E represent collision energy should be “represents”.”
Answer: Thank you for your suggestion. “E represent collision energy” has been
modified to “E represents collision energy” in the manuscript.
Comment: 4) “Table 1 and Figure S1 are duplicate. The sarcoma pictures of 7
and 14 DPI are recommended to be shown in Figure S1.”
Answer: Thank you for your suggestion. “Table 1” was deleted and “Table 2” has
been modified to “Table 1”. The sentence of “The sarcoma weights and volumes
of control, 7 DPI and 14 DPI group are shown in Table 1 and Figure S1.” has been
modified to “The sarcoma weights and volumes of control, 7 DPI and 14 DPI
group are shown in Figure 1.” in the manuscript.
Comment: 5) “In table 2 and in the text, please add a note for the AUC values,
whether it from the comparisons between 7 DPI and control, or between 14 DPI
and controls.”
Answer: Thank you for your valuable suggestion. As shown in Table 2 (Now, it
was Table 1), 9 dysregulated metabolites under positive-ion mode and 7
dysregulated metabolites under negative-ion mode were detected at all the two
time points. Notes have been added to AUC values, log2(FC) values, and P
values in Table 2 and in the text. The note (*) indicates the comparisons
between 7 DPI and control group.
“* indicates the comparisons between 7 DPI and control group” has been added
in Table 1.
Comment: 6) “Figure 1 contains less valuable information, can be moved to
the supplementary. In contrast, Figure S1 can be moved into the main text.”
Answer: Thank you for your suggestion. Figure 1 (representative UPLC-QTOF/MS
total ion chromatograms) was moved to the supplementary. In contrast, Figure
S1 (the sarcoma pictures of 7 and 14 DPI) has been moved into the main text.
The corresponding amendments are highlighted in red in the marked-up
manuscript.
Comment: 7) “Figure 2c, QC samples in negative model is not well grouped,
which means the data quality is not well reliable. Please explain?”
Answer: Thank you for your comment. Retention time (tR)-m/z datasets were
used to characterization of the detected ions. We reprocessed the intensities of
the detected ions according to “30% rule in QCP samples” and “80% rule in test
samples”. Then, we redrew the PCA score plots and Hotelling’s T2 Range plots of
all analyzed samples in 7 DPI model group, 14 DPI model group, control group
and QCP samples using EZinfo software.
“80% rule in test samples”: only the variables with values above zero in at least
80% of a group were kept for the following analysis.
“30% rule in QCP samples”: the ion intensities for each detected peak were
normalized against the sum of the peak intensities within that sample. After
normalization, variables with an RSD >30% in QCP samples were removed.
Comment: 8) “in section 3.5, the paragraph is about metabolic variations
between 7 and 14 DPI, but some figures indicated are not related to this topic
such as figure 3, as below.”
As the sarcoma grows, 14 and 12 differential metabolites were screened in
positive and negative-ion mode between 7 DPI and 14 DPI group, respectively.
The scores plots of OPLSDA model discriminated the 14 DPI group from 7 DPI
group in positive (Figure 3A and 3D) and negative ion mode (Figure S2 A and D),
which shown satisfactory classification, implying that the differential
metabolites contributed to the good separation. The differential metabolites
were visualized and filtered by the S-plots (Figure 3 B,E and Figure S2 B,E) and
loading-plots (Figure 3 C,F and Figure S2 C,F) in both ion modes, respectively.
The heat maps also shown that the plasma metabolic states of 14 DPI group
mice deviated significantly from 7 DPI in the positive (Figure 4B) and
negative-ion mode (Figure 4D), respectively.
Answer: Thank you for your valuable suggestion. In section 3.5, the paragraph is
about metabolic variations between 7 and 14 DPI, but some figures indicated
are not related to this topic such as figure 3. Figure 3 showed that the variations
between 7 DPI and control group. Figure S2 showed that the variations between
14 DPI and 7 DPI.
The paragraph in section 3.5 has been modified to “As the sarcoma grew, 14 and
12 differential metabolites were screened in positive and negative-ion mode
between 7 DPI and 14 DPI group, respectively. The scores plots of OPLSDA
model discriminated the 14 DPI group from 7 DPI group in positive (Figure S2 A)
and negative ion mode (Figure S2 D), which shown satisfactory classification,
implying that the differential metabolites contributed to the good separation.
The differential metabolites were visualized and filtered by the S-plots (Figure
S2 B, E) and loading-plots (Figure S2 C, F) in both ion modes, respectively. The
heat maps also shown that the plasma metabolic states of 14 DPI group mice
deviated significantly from 7 DPI in the positive (Figure 4B) and negative-ion
mode (Figure 4D), respectively.”
Response to Reviewer #2:
Overall this is a very interesting bit of work with a lot of analysis conducted. I
have five main concerns which should be addressed.
Comment: 1) “The English is not suitable for publication and would need a
thorough re-write. (it is not incomprehensible but needs improvement).”
Answer: Thank you for your valuable suggestion. We have checked the
manuscript carefully and seeked advice from a language polishing service
(https://secure.aje.com).The amendments are highlighted in red in the
marked-up manuscript.
Comment: 2) “There is no real explanation of the use of the Lewis Lung cancer
carcinoma model. Why was this one selected. What is the effect of a xenograft
model - could this not be the reason for changes in remodelling type
metabolites. What was the control???”
Answer: Thank you for your question. This untargeted metabolomics
investigation of lung carcinoma onset and development was conducted in a
tumor-bearing mouse model using Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) cell injection. As
a classic experimental animal model of lung carcinoma, LLC tumor-bearing
mouse model can reproduce some of the histogenesis and histological
morphology observed in lung carcinoma, and has been used in lung cancer
experiments [1-4]. So the Lewis Lung cancer carcinoma model was selected.
The xenograft model was the tumor-bearing mouse model. It could be the
reason for changes in remodelling type metabolites. The control was normal
C57BL/6 mouse.
References:
1 Ueha, S., Yokochi, S., Ishiwata, Y., Ogiwara, H., Chand, K., Nakajima, T., Hachiga,
K., Shichino, S., Terashima, Y., Toda, E., et al. 2015 Robust Antitumor Effects of
Combined Anti-CD4-Depleting Antibody and Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Immune
Checkpoint Antibody Treatment in Mice. Cancer immunology research. 3,
631-640. (10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0190)
2 Yamamura, Y., Asai, N., Enomoto, A., Kato, T., Mii, S., Kondo, Y., Ushida, K.,
Niimi, K., Tsunoda, N., Nagino, M., et al. 2015 Akt-Girdin signaling in
cancer-associated fibroblasts contributes to tumor progression. Cancer Res. 75,
813-823. (10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-14-1317)
3 Chen, P.-C., Chen, C.-C., Ker, Y.-B., Chang, C.-H., Chyau, C.-C., Hu, M.-L. 2018
Anti-Metastatic Effects of Antrodan with and without Cisplatin on Lewis Lung
Carcinomas in a Mouse Xenograft Model. International journal of molecular
sciences. 19, 1565.
4 Yang, Y., Cai, H., Yuan, X., Xu, H., Hu, Y., Rui, X., Wu, J., Chen, J., Li, J., Gao, X., et
al. 2018 Efficient Targeting Drug Delivery System for Lewis Lung Carcinoma,
Leading to Histomorphological Abnormalities Restoration, Physiological and
Psychological Statuses Improvement, and Metastasis Inhibition. Molecular
pharmaceutics. 15, 2007-2016. (10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00161)
Comment: 3) “How was the LC-MS analysis done. Were the samples
sequentially run through the groups or was it randomised?? If not randomised
how do you account for any "drift" throughout the sample set??”
Answer: Thank you for your comment. Each of the samples was analyzed by
UPLC-QTOF/MS in both positive and negative ionization mode to obtain
metabolite profiles and the analysis order of all test samples was randomized.
The analysis order of all test samples was randomized to reduce the impact of
"drift" on data.
In order to condition the LC-MS system, the QCP sample was injected three
times before initiating the run. The QCP sample was re-injected once at the
beginning, every five sample injections, and at the end of the run (total of nine
injections) to provide a set of data to monitor the reproducibility of the
analytical platform.
Comment: 4) “The negative ion data nicely clusters. Why does the positive ion
not do the same?”
Answer: Thank you for your question. We reprocessed the intensities of the
detected ions according to “30% rule in QCP samples” and “80% rule in test
samples”. Then, we redrew the PCA score plots and Hotelling’s T2 Range plots of
all analyzed samples in 7 DPI model group, 14 DPI model group, control group
and QCP samples using EZinfo software.
“80% rule in test samples”: only the variables with values above zero in at least
80% of a group were kept for the following analysis.
“30% rule in QCP samples”: the ion intensities for each detected peak were
normalized against the sum of the peak intensities within that sample. After
normalization, variables with an RSD >30% in QCP samples were removed.
Comment: 5) “You don't really show convincingly the changes in metabolites
from control to 7 day to 14 day. A line chart could have done this rather then
HC??”
Answer: Thank you for your valuable suggestion. The changes in metabolites
from control to 7 day to 14 day have been showed in Figure S3. Figure S3 was
added in Electronic Supplementary Text.
The sentence of “The intensity differences of 15 potential biomarkers were
evaluated by ‘One Way ANOVA’. All pairwise multiple comparison procedures
(Student–Newman–Keuls Method) were performed with a SPSS 18.0 (SPSS Inc.,
USA) to calculate the p-values among the control, 7 DPI and 14 DPI groups as
shown in Figure S3” had been added in Page 5.
Minor issues:
pg1 line 25 – word reliable
In line 1 of the abstract, “a reliable untargeted metabolomic method” has been
modified to “an untargeted metabolomic method”.
line 26 (E represents collision energy)?? DIA?
In this study, we describe a new application of ultra-performance liquid
chromatography coupled with an electrospray ionization quadrupole
time-of-flight mass spectrometry operating in MSE mode (UPLC-QTOF-MSE) for
the sensitive, fast, and effective characterization of endogenous metabolites in
mouse plasma. This approach allowed identification of endogenous metabolites
using a cyclic low and high collision energy spectral acquisition mode providing
simultaneous accurate precursor and fragment ion mass information.
The UPLC-QTOF-MSE chromatography of the mixture of endogenous
metabolites generates two different chromatograms, corresponding to each
scan function. In function 1, the quadrupole Q1 scans m/z 50-1200 transmitting
intact ions through the collision cell using low collision energy (6 V). These ions
are then pushed into the TOF analyzer to acquire exact mass measurements of
precursor ions. Interleaved with function 1, function 2 scans the same mass
range, but the collision cell dynamically applies high collision energy (15–40 V),
to optimally fragment all the ions transmitted by Q1 and precise mass
measurements of the fragments are subsequently acquired by the TOF analyzer.
Line 53 sentence “Up to date…. ” needs rewriting
In line 9 of the first paragraph, the sentence of “Up to date, the diagnosis is
mainly depends on the clinical symptoms and detection frequently occurred at
an advanced stage, thus lead to a very poor prognosis.” has been modified to
“Currently, diagnosis is mainly depends on the clinical symptoms, and detection
frequently occurs at an advanced stage, thus leading to a very poor prognosis.”.
Page 3 line 3 2nd column Lording to be replaced with loadings
“lording” has been modified to “loadings” in the manuscript.
Page 4 line 3 2nd column. Matrixes should be matrices
“matrixes” has been modified to “matrices” in Page 2, Page 4, Page 7.
Could you clarify if you ran the samples in sequence with intermittent QCs or
you randomised the samples?
The analysis order of all test samples was randomized to reduce the impact of
"drift" on data. The QCP sample was injected three times before initiating the
run. The QCP sample was re-injected once at the beginning, every five sample
injections, and at the end of the run (total of nine injections) to provide a set of
data to monitor the reproducibility of the analytical platform.
Figure 3 legend “Lording” error (x2) again
“lording” has been modified to “loadings” in legend of Figure 3.
Figure 4 How are the HC figures generated??
Heat maps were used to visualize the tendency of metabolite changes. The
intensities of the differential metabolites were exported into MeV_4.9.0
software to generate Heat maps.
Figure 6 legend matabolites should be metabolites
“matabolites” has been modified to “metabolites” in legend of Figure 6.
Thank you very much for your comments and suggestions once again!
Yours sincerely,
Huan Wu
E-mail: wuhuancpu@ahtcm.edu.cn
Corresponding author:
Zegeng Li,
E-mail: li6609@126.com
Society Open
