Can differential nutrient extraction explain property
variations in a predatory trap?
Sean J. Blamires, Dakota Piorkowski, Angela Chuang, Yi-Hsuan Tseng, Søren Toft and
I-Min Tso
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140479.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140479
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 February 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal following peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140479.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear how to access the supporting data. Yes, the data are clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I was reviewer 2 on the manuscript’s previous review. The authors’ responses to my comments
satisfied most of my concerns and I have only a few comments on the most recent version of this
manuscript.
Page 12, lines 21 & 22. “The balance of proteins, carbohydrates and lipids in prey influence the
growth, size, age at maturity and reproductive output of predators [7-9].”
As the impact of nutrition on spider’s is the main topic of this paper and the authors’ think it
important enough to focus on this in the opening sentence of this paragraph, I would still find it
useful if they could give me a brief, general sense of what the cited studies found so that I can
focus more fully on this topic before reading on and can’t understand why the authors are
reluctant to do this. Something such as the following (if correct) would be helpful: “For example,
xx animals xx whose diets contained more protein matured faster and xx animals xx which
consumed more fat produced more eggs.” This would help justify the “Thus” which begins the
next sentence, as a bit firmer understanding would have been gained before this transition is
made.
Page 21 (of PDF, not manuscript page), line 203: “Since our experiment was staged by design: i.e.
we first fed spiders for seven rounds and measured”
It may be a little clearer to say “seven rounds of feeding”.
Page 23, lines 235-238. It may be useful to point out that the lack of difference in treatment
weights at the end of the experiment also provide general validation for the five fly = 1 cricket
nutrient content design.
Page 27, line 314: “ withstand particular kinetic energy impacts be tested to confirm this
speculation.”
It may be good to present this as a “hypothesis” rather than a “speculation”, as the authors have
observations on which to base this explanation.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140479)
09-Feb-2015
Dear Dr Blamires
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140479 entitled
"Can differential nutrient extraction explain property variations in a predatory trap?" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
3
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Feb-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140479.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Dear Editor,
We hereby submit:
An amended version of our accepted manuscript entitled “Can differential
nutrient extraction explain material investment of a predatory trap?” by Sean J
Blamires, Dakota Piorkowski, Angela Chuang, Yi-Hsuan Tseng, Søren Toft
and I-Min Tso for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
We addressed the reviewer’s concerns in revising the amended version as
follows.
COMMENT 1: Page 12, lines 21 & 22. “The balance of proteins,
carbohydrates and lipids in prey influence the growth, size, age at maturity
and reproductive output of predators [7-9].”
As the impact of nutrition on spider’s is the main topic of this paper and the
authors’ think it important enough to focus on this in the opening sentence of
this paragraph, I would still find it useful if they could give me a brief, general
sense of what the cited studies found so that I can focus more fully on this
topic before reading on and can’t understand why the authors are reluctant to
do this. Something such as the following (if correct) would be helpful: “For
example, xx animals xx whose diets contained more protein matured faster
and xx animals xx which consumed more fat produced more eggs.” This
would help justify the “Thus” which begins the next sentence, as a bit firmer
understanding would have been gained before this transition is made.
REPLY: We have now stated on line 22-25 “For example, when the lipid to
protein ratio ingested by predatory beetles deviated from a measurable
optimum it results in a reduction in egg production (ref), likewise wolf spiders
on diets containing an optimal protein to lipid ratio mature faster (refs)” to
provide some examples of what the cited studies found.
COMMENT 2: Page 21 (of PDF, not manuscript page), line 203: “Since our
experiment was staged by design: i.e. we first fed spiders for seven rounds and
measured”
It may be a little clearer to say “seven rounds of feeding”.
REPLY: We have changed the terminology as suggested (line 206).
COMMENT 3: Page 23, lines 235-238. It may be useful to point out that the
lack of difference in treatment weights at the end of the experiment also
provide general validation for the five fly = 1 cricket nutrient content design.
REPLY: We have stated that the fact that there was that no difference in
weight gain or loss among treatment shows “that feeding the spiders either
one cricket or five flies did not adversely affect the results” (line 241-242).
COMMENT 4: Page 27, line 314: “ withstand particular kinetic energy
impacts be tested to confirm this speculation.”
It may be good to present this as a “hypothesis” rather than a “speculation”, as
the authors have observations on which to base this explanation.
REPLY: We have changed the terminology as suggested (line 315 and 320).
In addition, the amended manuscript now contains Ethics, Data Accessibility,
Competing Interests, Authorship and Funding statements at the end of the text
(line 382-402).
We have submitted, along with the amended manuscript: (1) individual EPS
files for Figures 1,2 and 4 and a TIFF file for Figure 3, (2) a 100 word media
summary of our work, and (3) supplementary material as a word document.
The raw data are deposited in Dryad.
We thank you very much for accepting our manuscript for publication.
Yours faithfully,
Sean J Blamires
Senior Author
Evolution & Ecology Research Centre
School of Biological, Earth & Environmental Sciences
The University of New South Wales, Sydney 2052, Australia
Department of Life Science, Tunghai University
Taichung-kan Road, Taichung city
Taiwan 40704, R.O.C.
Society Open
