Unifying models of dialect spread and extinction using
surface tension dynamics
James Burridge
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171446.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171446
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171446.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper makes an interesting theoretical contribution to the study of linguistic evolution. The
author shows that wave and cascade/hierarchical models of linguistic change are driven by
surface tension. The author follows up this model with a detailed look at how long range
communication and biases can manipulate the surface tension at isoglosses. The logic of these
arguments are sound, and it is wonderful to have derivations of algorithms to explain dialectical
change. The manuscript is well written and relatively easy to follow along. I only have some
minor comments that should be addressed to help clarify the manuscript:
- Title: I found the title to be misleading - I didn't realize the paper would be about explaining the
ways in which dialects spread until I read the abstract. Maybe it could be made a bit broader like
"Unifying Models of Dialect Spread and Extinction Using Surface Tension Dynamics"
- "Phase ordering" is described in the introduction but isn't referred to again. Please apply the
results of the models to the concept of 'phase ordering' throughout the rest of the manuscript, or
at least in the Conclusions.
- Pg. 2, Lines 22-56: I think the author is assuming that the 'wave' and 'cascade' models are
referring specifically to short-range/medium-range communication. My understanding is that
long-range communication actually breaks down the isoglosses boundaries? Please clarify this in
the introduction (Line 52-53) and stay consistent throughout.
- Pg.2, Lines 56: Why does the author use "cascade model" when it is actually referred to as
"hierarchical diffusion"?
- Pg. 2, Lines 56: The author uses different definitions of bias throughout the paper. Please be
clear about what bias is actually referring too. Also, I am not convinced that 'bias' in terms of
'prestige' effects is really an issue that needs to be addressed. Please reference studies showing
that 'prestige' has an influence on peoples choice of dialect. In other parts of the manuscript, the
author discusses how people tend to choose dialects that align with their social group norms, and
this seems counter to the idea that people chose prestigious dialects.
- Pg 3, Lines 10-15: The author refers to long-range communication. Is this the same type of
communication assumed to be occurring in the cascade model?
- Pg 3. Line 44: Please explain what is meant by "metropolitan behavior". Does this mean people
that speak a metropolitan dialect?
- Pg 3. Line 20+: There are many parameters throughout the paper and it is tricky to keep track of
which is which. I might be helpful to include a table that summarizes what the different variables
mean.
- Pg 7. Line 55: "Consider a line of cities with equal spacing between each..." It is not clear to me
how the cascade model is not treating data differently than the wave model. Based on the wave
model, I believe the wave would continue from the first city to the last with similar behavior as
the cascade model. Please make it clearer what new assumptions are being made in the cascade
model over the wave model.
- Pg 8. Line 85+: Please make it clearer what is meant by "bias". In the introduction, bias is talked
about as an extension of the cascade model and is said to refer to 'prestige'. In this section, bias is
discussed in terms of 'memory' and then towards the end is discussed in terms of 'prestige'.
Please clarify what bias IS and IS NOT. Also, clarify how it applies both to the wave model and
3
the cascade model and surface tension. It might help to have a Figure in this section to help
visualize what bias does to the system.
- P 8., Line 43: Why is a 'saddle point method' used?
- P 10. Line 20: '... the spatial distribution of langauge....' Language is misspelled.
- Figure 9 caption: How was significance determined for vc = 0.118?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171446)
20-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Burridge,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Unifying wave, cascade, and dialect death using surface
tension") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper
in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 12-Nov-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
4
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171446
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor's comments:
I in principle agree with the report of the referee, and in particular with the fact that this is a
comprehensive research paper that adds relevantly to progress at the interface between
quantitative linguistics and statistical physics. Nevertheless, the introduction is overlooking a lot
of what physicists have done on this subject before. Readers do deserve a decent background in
related research, if for nothing else than to promote the "formation" of what could be called
statistical physics of language. Related to vocabulary size and growth, references Physical Review
X 3, 021006 (2013) and Scientific Reports 2, 943 (2012) would certainly fit very well from a
physicist perspective. In terms of language change over time New Journal of Physics 16, 113010
(2014) and J. R. Soc. Interface 9, 3323-3328 (2012) likewise seem good fits. Andrea Baronchelli,
Vittorio Loreto, Ramon Ferrer i Cancho, Martin Gerlach, etc., also have a lot of research published
in terms of how statistical physics might help us better understand language change and
evolution.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper makes an interesting theoretical contribution to the study of linguistic evolution. The
author shows that wave and cascade/hierarchical models of linguistic change are driven by
surface tension. The author follows up this model with a detailed look at how long range
communication and biases can manipulate the surface tension at isoglosses. The logic of these
arguments are sound, and it is wonderful to have derivations of algorithms to explain dialectical
change. The manuscript is well written and relatively easy to follow along. I only have some
minor comments that should be addressed to help clarify the manuscript:
- Title: I found the title to be misleading - I didn't realize the paper would be about explaining the
ways in which dialects spread until I read the abstract. Maybe it could be made a bit broader like
"Unifying Models of Dialect Spread and Extinction Using Surface Tension Dynamics"
- "Phase ordering" is described in the introduction but isn't referred to again. Please apply the
results of the models to the concept of 'phase ordering' throughout the rest of the manuscript, or
at least in the Conclusions.
- Pg. 2, Lines 22-56: I think the author is assuming that the 'wave' and 'cascade' models are
referring specifically to short-range/medium-range communication. My understanding is that
long-range communication actually breaks down the isoglosses boundaries? Please clarify this in
the introduction (Line 52-53) and stay consistent throughout.
- Pg.2, Lines 56: Why does the author use "cascade model" when it is actually referred to as
"hierarchical diffusion"?
- Pg. 2, Lines 56: The author uses different definitions of bias throughout the paper. Please be
clear about what bias is actually referring too. Also, I am not convinced that 'bias' in terms of
'prestige' effects is really an issue that needs to be addressed. Please reference studies showing
that 'prestige' has an influence on peoples choice of dialect. In other parts of the manuscript, the
author discusses how people tend to choose dialects that align with their social group norms, and
this seems counter to the idea that people chose prestigious dialects.
- Pg 3, Lines 10-15: The author refers to long-range communication. Is this the same type of
communication assumed to be occurring in the cascade model?
6
- Pg 3. Line 44: Please explain what is meant by "metropolitan behavior". Does this mean people
that speak a metropolitan dialect?
- Pg 3. Line 20+: There are many parameters throughout the paper and it is tricky to keep track of
which is which. I might be helpful to include a table that summarizes what the different variables
mean.
- Pg 7. Line 55: "Consider a line of cities with equal spacing between each..." It is not clear to me
how the cascade model is not treating data differently than the wave model. Based on the wave
model, I believe the wave would continue from the first city to the last with similar behavior as
the cascade model. Please make it clearer what new assumptions are being made in the cascade
model over the wave model.
- Pg 8. Line 85+: Please make it clearer what is meant by "bias". In the introduction, bias is talked
about as an extension of the cascade model and is said to refer to 'prestige'. In this section, bias is
discussed in terms of 'memory' and then towards the end is discussed in terms of 'prestige'.
Please clarify what bias IS and IS NOT. Also, clarify how it applies both to the wave model and
the cascade model and surface tension. It might help to have a Figure in this section to help
visualize what bias does to the system.
- P 8., Line 43: Why is a 'saddle point method' used?
- P 10. Line 20: '... the spatial distribution of langauge....' Language is misspelled.
- Figure 9 caption: How was significance determined for vc = 0.118?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171446)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171446.R1)
23-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Burridge,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Unifying Models of Dialect Spread and
Extinction using Surface Tension Dynamics" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
7
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Matjaz Perc (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Thank you for the comprehensive revision of your manuscript, which are happy to accept for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Appendix A
James Burridge
Department of Mathematics,
University of Portsmouth.
Dear Editor(s),
I am grateful to you and the referee for reading my paper and for your comments. I detail my
responses below.
My response to editor’s comment that work of other physicists in this field is overlooked in the
introduction is as follows. Within the introduction I have added a self-contained discussion of the
Statistical Physics of language, with particular reference to papers that are directly relevant to my
work, and also adjacent work on language evolution (including references suggested by editor). I
have also mentioned in the second paragraph of the introduction that the analogy between social
and physical ordering is commonly used by physicists studying social dynamics.
Response to referee comments:
1. Referee suggests change of title. Response: Title changed as per suggestion.
2. Referee points out that phase ordering is mentioned in the introduction and then not again,
and the results of the models are not related to the concept again in the rest of the
manuscript. Response: On reflection, the term “coarsening” (smoothing of domain
boundaries to create fewer, larger domains) more precisely relates the linguistic
phenomenon (isogloss motion) to the physical one (domain wall motion). This term is now
used in place of phase ordering and both the meaning of the term, and its relation to
isoglosses, is described more fully. Coarsening is also referred to later in the manuscript.
3. Referee asks if wave and cascade (now hierarchical diffusion throughout paper) are referring
specifically to short and long-range communication and asks for clarification of whether long
range interactions break down isogloss boundaries. Response: It is correct that hierarchical
diffusion requires long range interactions, and short-range interactions lead to wave-like
diffusion. Mixing is one possible source of long range interactions, and can under some
circumstances lead to the breakdown of isogloss boundaries. This has been made clearer in
the final paragraph of the introduction, given a full discussion in section 6, and discussed
consistently throughout the paper.
4. Referee queries use of term “cascade model” when “hierarchical diffusion” is standard term.
Response: Throughout the paper, the spread of linguistic forms via jumps (long range
interactions) is now always described as hierarchical diffusion and cascades are no longer
mentioned.
5. Referee requests that distinctions between different forms of bias are better explained and
suggests that bias induced by prestige may not be an issue that need to be addressed.
Response: Mention of prestige in the introduction as a potential mechanism which drives
isogloss movement has been removed. Instead the example of a linguistic variable which is
easier to adopt than another is mentioned, and a reference given. Also at the start of
section 4 which deals with inherent bias (alpha), the meaning of inherent in this context is
made clear – it is any form of bias not created by the tendency to conform to the locally
dominant form of speech. This distinction is made clear in all relevant places throughout the
manuscript.
6. Referee asks if the long-range communication described at the end of the introduction is the
same type of communication described in the cascade model (now referred to as the
hierarchical diffusion model). Response: The paragraph mentioned by the referee was
previously not clear and has been re-written. It is true that long range mixing can be a source
of long range connections equivalent to those described in the non-stochastic long-range
model. However, mixing only leads to dialect loss by isogloss shrinkage if the mixing is
system wide rather than between population centres, and if conformity is sufficiently high –
these points are discussed in section 6. Isoglosses can be destroyed outright by “internal
destruction” as discussion in section 6.
7. Referee requests that the meaning of “metropolitan behaviour” is made clear. Response:
The definition of metropolitan behaviour (the ability to make long range linguistic
connections) is now explained more carefully immediately after the term is introduced.
8. Referee requests table giving meanings of parameters. Response: Table provided.
9. Referee requests the different predictions / behaviour of hierarchical diffusion vs wave
model be made clear in the line of cities example. Response: The explanation of this
example has been substantially expanded to make it clear that the variant is jumping from
one city to the next (undergoing hierarchical diffusion) without passing through
intermediate rural areas via wave-like spread.
10. Referee requests greater clarity about what bias is and is not, and an additional figure.
Response: Extra discussion added clarifying the types of bias captured by alpha (see point 5)
and a new figure created showing how bias perturbs isoglosses. We now clearly distinguish
between inherent bias toward one variant (captured by alpha) and bias toward the locally
dominant variant (captured by beta). We make clear in section 6 that when isoglosses are
moved by mixing, this is not inherent bias. Reference to induced bias in the abstract has
been changed to induced “shrinkage” to avoid confusion between the effects of mixing and
the effects of inherent bias. This distinction is now carefully made in section 6.
11. Referee asks why saddle point method used. Response: Comment added to explain that
saddle point method is mathematical technique to approximate integrals.
12. Spelling error corrected.
13. Referee asks how significance determined for vc=0.118. Response: Author is not entirely
sure he has correctly interpreted the referee’s request here, but the method for finding vc is
now given in the caption to Figure 10 – quoting three significant figures for vc was deemed
sufficient given the range of values of v explored.
I hope that these corrections are acceptable.
Best regards,
James Burridge.
Society Open
