Assessment of owner-directed aggressive behavioural
tendencies of dogs in situations of possession and
manipulation
Anna Bálint, Gabriella Rieger, Ádám Miklósi and Péter Pongrácz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171040.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171040
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171040.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The aim of the research was to develop a questionnaire which accurately assesses the owner-
directed aggressive behavioural tendencies of dogs by validating it with two, contextually
different behaviour tests.
The paper is well-structured and accurately describes experimental methodology. The results are
very interesting because they allow to evaluate the behavior of potentially dangerous dogs
through a questionnaire validated by two behavioral tests.
The discussion of results takes into account all the possible factors that may have affected the
research.
I have not particular requests or suggestions and the paper may, in my opinion, be published.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper evaluates a behavioral questionnaire to predict aggression in dogs and validates it
with two behavioral tests.
This is a useful and interesting line of research given the importance of aggression in owner
relinquishment and euthanasia of companion dogs.
I am recommending acceptance of the manuscript with minor revisions:
In general I would like the authors to discuss how this questionnaire compares to the C-BARQ
given that that is the other validated behavioral questionnaire focusing on aggression. What holes
does theirs fill that the C-BARQ does not?
3
Also what are the limitations of this questionnaire? Can it be used on shelter dogs (it would likely
require further validation)?
I also have some minor edits:
P 5 Line 107: "which surveys" and the following clause does not seem to flow well from the
beginning of that sentence. Perhaps start a new sentence with the advantages of questionnaires.
P. 7 Line 148 change to "nor did the experimenters ask about"
P. 7 line 162. "We used a fixed order of tests in case of each subject" is a clunky way of saying this.
Perhaps: For each subject, we conducted the tests in a fixed order.
P. 9 Lines 212-216. Please clarify when/how the test was ended: did it last for 1 minute or did it
only end when the dog let go of the bone? Perhaps it ended if dog let go or made an attempt to
attack, otherwise it lasted for 1 min?
P. 20 Line 466-467: "known biting accidents" change accidents to incidents. We don't know if they
were accidental or not.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171040)
12-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Pongracz
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171040 entitled
"Assessment of owner-directed aggressive behavioural tendencies of dogs in situations of
possession and manipulation" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171040
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
5
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Both Reviewers concur that this is a nicely executed piece of work of contemporary relevance.
Reviewer Two suggests some minor revisions that I would like to see implemented if you are
willing to. These are small changes. Reviewers suggests including a line or two about the Serpell
C-Barq test as well as smoothing a few sentences for reading ease.
Well done on a very nice contribution.
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
I would like to see the N of subjects in the abstract as well as under methods.
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The aim of the research was to develop a questionnaire which accurately assesses the owner-
directed aggressive behavioural tendencies of dogs by validating it with two, contextually
different behaviour tests.
The paper is well-structured and accurately describes experimental methodology. The results are
very interesting because they allow to evaluate the behavior of potentially dangerous dogs
through a questionnaire validated by two behavioral tests.
The discussion of results takes into account all the possible factors that may have affected the
research.
I have not particular requests or suggestions and the paper may, in my opinion, be published.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper evaluates a behavioral questionnaire to predict aggression in dogs and validates it
with two behavioral tests.
This is a useful and interesting line of research given the importance of aggression in owner
relinquishment and euthanasia of companion dogs.
I am recommending acceptance of the manuscript with minor revisions:
In general I would like the authors to discuss how this questionnaire compares to the C-BARQ
given that that is the other validated behavioral questionnaire focusing on aggression. What holes
does theirs fill that the C-BARQ does not?
Also what are the limitations of this questionnaire? Can it be used on shelter dogs (it would likely
require further validation)?
I also have some minor edits:
P 5 Line 107: "which surveys" and the following clause does not seem to flow well from the
beginning of that sentence. Perhaps start a new sentence with the advantages of questionnaires.
P. 7 Line 148 change to "nor did the experimenters ask about"
P. 7 line 162. "We used a fixed order of tests in case of each subject" is a clunky way of saying this.
Perhaps: For each subject, we conducted the tests in a fixed order.
P. 9 Lines 212-216. Please clarify when/how the test was ended: did it last for 1 minute or did it
only end when the dog let go of the bone? Perhaps it ended if dog let go or made an attempt to
attack, otherwise it lasted for 1 min?
P. 20 Line 466-467: "known biting accidents" change accidents to incidents. We don't know if they
were accidental or not.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171040)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171040.R1)
18-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Pongracz,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Assessment of owner-directed
aggressive behavioural tendencies of dogs in situations of possession and manipulation" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
***************************
pendix A
er letter and responses to the reviewers
are grateful to the Editors and Reviewers for their supportive approach and opinion about or work.
se find our responses to the suggestions below – as well as throughout the manuscript, where
bneges were highlighted with bold typesetting.
e name of all co-authors, sincerely:
r Pongrácz, PhD (Corresponding author)
ociate Editor: 2
ments to the Author:
uld like to see the N of subjects in the abstract as well as under methods.
PONSE: DONE
iewer comments to Author:
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
aim of the research was to develop a questionnaire which accurately assesses the owner-directed
essive behavioural tendencies of dogs by validating it with two, contextually different behaviour tests.
paper is well-structured and accurately describes experimental methodology. The results are very
esting because they allow to evaluate the behavior of potentially dangerous dogs through a questionnaire
ated by two behavioral tests.
discussion of results takes into account all the possible factors that may have affected the research.
ve not particular requests or suggestions and the paper may, in my opinion, be published.
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
paper evaluates a behavioral questionnaire to predict aggression in dogs and validates it with two
avioral tests.
is a useful and interesting line of research given the importance of aggression in owner relinquishment and
anasia of companion dogs.
recommending acceptance of the manuscript with minor revisions:
eneral I would like the authors to discuss how this questionnaire compares to the C-BARQ given that that is
other validated behavioral questionnaire focusing on aggression. What holes does theirs fill that the C-
Q does not?
PONSE: Thank you for this suggestion – we included a section about this question to the
ussion (Lines 412-429). Briefly: the main addition by our method was that we performed
avioural tests involving the dog owners for the validation of our questionnaire about owner-directed
ression, meanwhile in case of C-BARQ the Authors used a sub-sample of responses by the owners
ogs with behavioural problems.
what are the limitations of this questionnaire? Can it be used on shelter dogs (it would likely require further
ation)?
PONSE: This is an important issue – we added a section about this to the Conclusions (Lines 509-
.
o have some minor edits:
Line 107: "which surveys" and the following clause does not seem to flow well from the beginning of that
ence. Perhaps start a new sentence with the advantages of questionnaires.
PONSE: Done, see Lines 107-108.
Line 148 change to "nor did the experimenters ask about"
PONSE: Done.
line 162. "We used a fixed order of tests in case of each subject" is a clunky way of saying this. Perhaps:
each subject, we conducted the tests in a fixed order.
PONSE: Thank you for the suggestion, we used the recommended wording here.
Lines 212-216. Please clarify when/how the test was ended: did it last for 1 minute or did it only end when
dog let go of the bone? Perhaps it ended if dog let go or made an attempt to attack, otherwise it lasted for 1
?
PONSE: We included further description, according to the request of the Reviewer (see lines 214-
.
0 Line 466-467: "known biting accidents" change accidents to incidents. We don't know if they were
dental or not.
PONSE: The Reviewer is absolutely right, this was a typo – we corrected it.
Society Open
