Whole transcriptome analysis reveals changes in
expression of immune-related genes during and after
bleaching in a reef-building coral
Jorge H. Pinzón, Bishoy Kamel, Colleen A. Burge, C. Drew Harvell, Mónica Medina,
Ernesto Weil and Laura D. Mydlarz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140214.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140214
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 March 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140214.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lory Santiago)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, I was able to access the website and download and open the files.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
• Abstract and introduction are well written. They provide the necessary background to
put the presented experiments into context. Their experimental subjects are appropriate to test
their hypothesis since these are naturally bleached O. faveolata colonies compared to non-
bleached colonies during the same environment and same time period. The value of this project
lies in the fact that the results that they got are very close to what happens in nature so this
information can be directly used to design conservation strategies and management plans.
• One question I had right from the start was related to the authors’ comments on corals of
the same species but living in warmer vs. colder environments and how the warmer colonies are
more resilient than the colder ones. Is this something that they plan to test in the future since they
spend a paragraph on this topic? This is not addressed again in the rest of the manuscript. I
would also be interested to if in the long-term, these previously bleached but now recovered
corals are more susceptible to disease or bleaching; does a bleaching renders them
immunologically suppressed for as long as the colony is alive? Would like to see this point
discussed in the discussion.
• Typo: Page 6, line 128 should say “manufacturer’s” instead of manufacture’s
• Methodology is very clear and also well written. RNA-Seq is highly technical but authors
did a good on presenting essential information in an easy to understand manner.
• Page 9, lines 180-183: What is the purpose of the additional samples collected in Dec.
2010 and August 2011? I didn’t find them used in the rest of the experiment but maybe I missed
it.
• Page 11, paragraph starting in line 235: To clarify, do authors mean that during the
sampling period the transcriptome of Symbiodinium of bleached and unbleached did not change
the whole time yet the species associated while the bleached corals transcriptome did change? Or
that the changes were the same as those seen in the metatranscriptome and that the
metatranscriptome did change as discussed in previous paragraph?
• Page 13 line 267: annotated genes seem to return to normal expression levels a year after
the bleaching event (no difference between bleach vs. unbleached)? Or is it that what was
differentially expressed in Nov. 2010, returned to normal in March 2011, but were again
differentially expressed almost a year later? This paragraph is a bit confusing. Also, if I am
understanding the data correctly, I’m wondering if the return to differentially expressed genes a
year later predates a future bleaching event or the onset of disease after October 2011. I’m sure
the authors are continuing to monitor these colonies and hopefully they’ll follow up on their
status. Is it possible to comment on the health of those colonies (at least visually) for this
manuscript? If not, this wouldn’t disqualify this manuscript for publication; I’m just curious.
• Page 15 paragraph on line 315. When authors refer to the holobiont expression profile I
am assuming that it is the same as the metatranscriptome? But expression of bleached colonies
grouped Nov 10 and Oct 11 together although not March 11, yet everything else part of the
holobiont (Symbiodinium and other eukaryotes) grouped with the unbleached
metatranscriptome or the metranscriptome as a whole (bleached + unbleached)? Please clarify
this paragraph a little better.
• The Mydlarz lab specializes in work at the protein level so I am wondering if the authors
plan to look at the expression of some of these genes at the protein level to see if they correlate.
There’s a lot of regulation that happens post-translationally and I am wondering if they plan to
look at this.
• Overall this was an excellent paper and I enjoyed reading it very much.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No. Analyses make use of considerable unpublished genomic resources (see lines 147 and 157),
for both host and algal endosymbiont sequences. This makes the independent analysis of the data
effectively impossible. It could be argued that the draft genomes used to separate the host and
transcriptomic sequences are an important and critical piece of data in the experiment. Authors
should either justify why the use of proprietary genomes is acceptable in this instance, or make
the draft genomes available.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Major Comments:
Analyses make use of considerable unpublished genomic resources (see lines 147 and 157), for
both host and algal endosymbiont sequences. This makes the independent analysis of the data
effectively impossible. The draft genomes used to separate the host and transcriptomic sequences
are an important and critical piece of data in the experiment. Authors should either justify why
the use of proprietary genomes is acceptable in this instance, or make the draft genomes
available.
The paper contains a massive amount of data and I fully understand the challenge of
synthesizing the results. While many patterns are reported on, the manuscript would be
dramatically improved if efforts were made to synthesize these results into larger models of the
processes at hand. The results could perhaps be better communicated if differentially expressed
immune components, for instance, were shown mapped (graphically, in figures) to their
respective pathways.
Further, the manuscript navigation could benefit from subheadings in the discussion.
Minor Omments:
Line 49 - comma after "cells"
Line 51 - used "normal" twice; reword to avoid redundancy
4
Lines 60 - 62 - citations needed.
Line 71 - comma is unnecessary
Line 74 - citation needed
Line 88 - would be appropriate to include these data, either as a supplement or as a figure
Line 104 - inclusion of images (ideally with calibration reference) would be valuable
Line 111 - I'm slightly concerned regarding the time between fragment removal and snap
freezing.
Line 136 - Remove "eliminates, or".
Line 138 and Line 171 - BLAST is a search algorithm. Against which database(s) did you use
BLAST to search? Please further elaborate regarding the GO annotation performed. Which
components of PANTHER DB were used? In Line 171 Blast2GO is used. Please unify and
consider combining the annotation / gene ontology portions of the methods.
Line 171 - I believe that the test performed within Blast2GO for enrichment is a Fisher's exact test
- this should be stated.
Line 176-183 - The paragraph is awkwardly worded and would benefit from considerable
reworking.
Line 181 - Change "Denature" to "Denaturing."
Line 210 - Insert period after "transcriptome."
Line 260 - Are the mentioned GO terms actually statistically overrepresented? This can be
examined via a hypergeometric test of differentially expressed GO terms against the background
(all GO terms from all contigs).
Line 349 - Too colloquial, consider rewording.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140214)
07-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Pinzon,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Whole transcriptome analysis reveals changes in
expression of immune related genes during and after bleaching in a reef-building coral") has now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
5
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140214)
See Appendix A.
UNIVERSITY OF
TEXAS Department of Biology
ARLINGTON
. Kevin Padian
logy Editor
yal Society Open Science
November 1, 2014
ar Dr. Padian,
ase accept the revision of our manuscript “Whole transcriptome analysis reveals changes in
ression of immune related genes during and after bleaching in a reef-building coral,” for
sideration of publication at the Royal Society Open Science Journal. I would like to thank you
the reviewers for the invaluable comments and suggestions that have improved the manuscript.
ase find attached the revised manuscript and the responses to the reviewer’s and editor comments.
have addressed all of the comments and suggestions of the reviewers in this revision of the
nuscript. A major concern was the unpublished data we were presenting in this paper. We have
luded some of the data (temperature profile of the region and Symbiodinium spp. genomic data)
pointed the reader to the source of other resources (O. faveolata genome). Other changes include
aragraph in the Methods section explaining our annotation and gene ontology procedure, figures
h colony pictures and the cited pathways, clarifications in some of the ideas and minor
gestions of appropriate language. We have also added/corrected some sentences to improve the
w of the manuscript.
low you will find a table with the detailed responses to all the comments. Each row includes the
ginal comment and our response. When appropriate, the line numbers in the manuscript are
luded.
appreciate your time and consideration.
cerely,
ge H. Pinzón C.
partment of Biology, The University of Texas at Arlington, 501 S. Nedderman Drive, Life Science Building, RM337, Arlington, TX
76019-0498, T (817)272-2872, Fax (817)272-2855, http://www.uta.edu/biology
Editor
e authors should respond to the Thanks for your comment. We realize this concern
iewers comments in particular reviewer is important too and have added the data to the
ho brings up the issue of using manuscript (i.e. Temperatures as a figure and the
published data which are important for Symbiodinium genomic data in the form of an
manuscript. ESM file), or point the reader the appropriate
source (i.e. O. faveolata consortium genome
website)
Reviewer 1
bstract and introduction are well Thanks for your comments we really appreciate
itten. They provide the necessary them.
kground to put the presented
periments into context. Their
perimental subjects are appropriate to
t their hypothesis since these are
urally bleached O. faveolata colonies
mpared to non-bleached colonies during
same environment and same time
iod. The value of this project lies in the
t that the results that they got are very
se to what happens in nature so this
ormation can be directly used to design
nservation strategies and management
ns.
ne question I had right from the start Indeed these are very interesting questions that are
s related to the authors’ comments on worth pursuing in the future. In fact we have such
als of the same species but living in experiments conducted and are currently analyzing
rmer vs. colder environments and how them, but the data are beyond the scope of this
warmer colonies are more resilient than project and manuscript.
colder ones. Is this something that they
n to test in the future since they spend a
agraph on this topic? This is not
dressed again in the rest of the
nuscript. I would also be interested to if
the long-term, these previously bleached
now recovered corals are more
ceptible to disease or bleaching; does a
aching renders them immunologically
pressed for as long as the colony is
ve? Would like to see this point
cussed in the discussion.
ypo: Page 6, line 128 should say Thanks, it has been fixed.
anufacturer’s” instead of manufacture’s
ethodology is very clear and also well Thank you for your comment.
itten. RNA-Seq is highly technical but
hors did a good on presenting essential
ormation in an easy to understand
nner.
age 9, lines 180-183: What is the These samples were collected to monitor changes
pose of the additional samples collected in Symbiodinium species through the bleaching
Dec. 2010 and August 2011? I didn’t event. We used that information (at least from
d them used in the rest of the experiment August 2011) in the discussion. Line 246-254
maybe I missed it. Section: “Effects of coral bleaching and the
response of the coral holobiont”
age 11, paragraph starting in line 235: Analyzes of the “Symbiodinium” and “other-
clarify, do authors mean that during the eukaryotes” transcriptomes revealed that both have
mpling period the transcriptome of similar patterns to those seen in the
mbiodinium of bleached and unbleached “metatranscriptome,” and appear to be associated
not change the whole time yet the with the identity of the symbionts present in the
cies associated while the bleached colony. This sentence (Bleached colonies showed
als transcriptome did change? Or that changes in the dominant symbiotic species
changes were the same as those seen in contrary to non-bleached colonies were the
metatranscriptome and that the association was stable during the sampling period.
tatranscriptome did change as discussed – Lines 246-254) was added to make this point
previous paragraph? more clear.
age 13 line 267: annotated genes seem The expression levels for these genes in October
return to normal expression levels a year 2011, were similar to those during the bleaching
er the bleaching event (no difference event, even tough some of them were back to
ween bleach vs. unbleached)? Or is it “normal” (by comparison with non-bleached
t what was differentially expressed in colonies) in March 2011. We did not collect these
v. 2010, returned to normal in March colonies before the bleaching, which means that
11, but were again differentially we do not have a “baseline” expression level from
pressed almost a year later? This before. Colonies in October 2011 appear
agraph is a bit confusing. Also, if I am “healthy” with no signs of bleaching. A
derstanding the data correctly, I’m clarification has been added to the end of this
ndering if the return to differentially sentence (Line 283).
pressed genes a year later predates a
ure bleaching event or the onset of
ease after October 2011. I’m sure the
hors are continuing to monitor these
onies and hopefully they’ll follow up on
ir status. Is it possible to comment on
health of those colonies (at least
ually) for this manuscript? If not, this
uldn’t disqualify this manuscript for
blication; I’m just curious.
age 15 paragraph on line 315. When This particular paragraph is dealing with
hors refer to the holobiont expression expression levels of single genes. The reviewer
file I am assuming that it is the same as however pointed out a possible misunderstanding
metatranscriptome? But expression of that was fixed by changing this part of the
ached colonies grouped Nov 10 and Oct paragraph to:
together although not March 11, yet The expression of TRAF1, MATL1, and ETV3, is
rything else part of the holobiont interesting in that these genes do not follow the
mbiodinium and other eukaryotes) patterns seen in the other immune-related genes.
uped with the unbleached The TRAF1 deviated from the expression levels
tatranscriptome or the metranscriptome seen in the other tumor necrosis factor pathway
a whole (bleached + unbleached)? genes, as it is up-regulated in the bleached
ase clarify this paragraph a little better. colonies. MATL1, was also up-regulated in
bleached colonies, and has high expression levels
in October 2011. Finally, ETV3 through the
survey appeared as a low expressed gene in
bleached colonies, compared to unbleached
colonies, but in the last month (October 2011) its
expression increased to higher levels than those
seen in the unbleached colonies (Figure 8). Lines
310-316.
he Mydlarz lab specializes in work at This is part of the plan, but due to the large
protein level so I am wondering if the amount of data, will have to be reserved for
hors plan to look at the expression of another manuscript.
me of these genes at the protein level to
if they correlate. There’s a lot of
ulation that happens post-translationally
d I am wondering if they plan to look at
s.
verall this was an excellent paper and I Again, thanks for your kind comments; we are
oyed reading it very much. glad you enjoy our manuscript.
Reviewer 2
alyses make use of considerable The Symbiodinium genomic data from Dr.
published genomic resources (see lines LaJeunesse is going to be supplied as
7 and 157), for both host and algal supplementary material in a file combining all the
dosymbiont sequences. This makes the Symbiodinum resources used in the manuscript.
ependent analysis of the data effectively This is now in part of the manuscript.
possible. The draft genomes used to
arate the host and transcriptomic The coral genome is currently available at
uences are an important and critical http://montastraea.psu.edu. We have made the
ce of data in the experiment. Authors appropriate changes in the manuscript to reflect
uld either justify why the use of the availability of this information.
prietary genomes is acceptable in this
tance, or make the draft genomes
ilable.
e paper contains a massive amount of We understand this point and we acknowledge that
a and I fully understand the challenge of we do present a massive amount of data. It is a
thesizing the results. While many difficult balance to present all the interesting
terns are reported on, the manuscript patterns in a synthetic and manageable unit. We
uld be dramatically improved if efforts appreciate your ideas to map the immune
re made to synthesize these results into components to their respective pathways and have
ger models of the processes at hand. added this (see below) to address this comment as
well.
e results could perhaps be better This is a great idea. Figure 7 with pathways
mmunicated if differentially expressed including most of the immune-related genes has
mune components, for instance, were been added.
wn mapped (graphically, in figures) to
ir respective pathways.
rther, the manuscript navigation could Thanks for your comments. Indeed the addition of
nefit from subheadings in the discussion. four subheadings to the discussion improved the
flow of the manuscript.
e 49 - comma after "cells" Added
e 51 - used "normal" twice; reword to Second “normal” change with “typical”
oid redundancy
es 60 - 62 - citations needed. Two references added:
Croquer A., Weil E. 2009 Changes in Caribbean
coral disease prevalence after the 2005 bleaching
event. Dis Aquat Org 87(1-2), 33-43.
Brandt M.E., McManus J.W. 2009 Disease
incidence is related to bleaching extent in reef-
building corals. Ecology 90(10), 2859-2867.
(doi:10.1890/08-0445.1).
e 71 - comma is unnecessary Removed
e 74 - citation needed Two references added:
DeSalvo M.K., Sunagawa S., Voolstra C.R.,
Medina M. 2010 Transcriptomic responses to heat
stress and bleaching in the elkhorn coral Acropora
palmata. Mar Ecol Prog Ser 402, 97-113.
(doi:10.3354/meps08372).
Desalvo M.K., Voolstra C.R., Sunagawa S.,
Schwarz J., Stillman J., Coffroth M.A., Szmant-
Froelich A.M., Medina M. 2008 Differential gene
expression during thermal stress and bleaching in
the Caribbean coral Montastraea faveolata. Mol
Ecol 17(17), 3952-3971.
e 88 - would be appropriate to include Figure 1 depicting the thermal anomaly related to
se data, either as a supplement or as a the 2010-bleaching event has been added.
ure
e 104 - inclusion of images (ideally A figure with bleached and non-bleached colonies
h calibration reference) would be has been added (Figure 2).
uable
e 111 - I'm slightly concerned regarding All samples were maintained and transported in
time between fragment removal and seawater at the temperature of the collection site.
p freezing. The time between collection and freezing was kept
to the absolute minimum needed to accomplish
these goals and was the same throughout all the
collections. This information has been added to the
text.
e 136 - Remove "eliminates, or". Removed
e 138 and Line 171 - BLAST is a search Thanks for your comment. These concerns were
orithm. Against which database(s) did addressed this paragraph added to the end of
u use BLAST to search? Please further section 2.4. Gene expression analysis and gene
borate regarding the GO annotation ontology (Lines 176-186):
formed. Which components of
NTHER DB were used? In Line 171 Gene ontology annotations were initially
st2GO is used. Please unify and determined using blast [50] for the
nsider combining the annotation / gene metatranscriptome contigs/genes, and further
ology portions of the methods. explored with Protein Analysis Through
Evolutionary Relationships (PANTHER) [51] and
Blast2GO [52] for genes showing significant gene
expression differences (corrected p-values > 0.05).
The metatranscriptome was blasted against the
Swiss-Prot database. In Blast2Go the annotations
were obtained from the NCBI’s nucleotide
database, InterPro, GO, Enzyme Codes and
KEGG. Enrichment test among the differentially
expressed genes were performed for the biological
processes using the Fisher’s Exact Test on
Database for Annotation, Visualization and
Integrated Discovery (DAVID) v6.7 [53]. All
biological processes, except locomotion and
biological regulation show p-values smaller than
0.05), suggesting that the processes are
significantly enriched. Pathways involving genes
with significant differences were obtained using
PathVisio [54] from WikiPathways [55] and the
Pathway Interaction Database [56].
e 171 - I believe that the test performed We performed the enrichment test on DAVID.
hin Blast2GO for enrichment is a This was added to the gene ontology section of
her's exact test - this should be stated. Methods
e 176-183 - The paragraph is Modified to (lines 188-194):
kwardly worded and would benefit from The identity of the associated Symbiodinium types
nsiderable reworking. in each sample was determined with BLAST [50].
Reads from each of the samples were aligned
against sequences of the internal transcribed
spacer 2 (ITS2) of Symbiodinium types known to
inhabit O. faveolata (S. fitti, D1a, B1, C3, C3d,
C3e, C7, C12). Alignments with 100% match were
use as the correct identity. The symbiont identity
of additional samples of the same colonies but
collected in other months (September and
December 2010 and August 2011), was
determined using Denaturing Gradient Gel
Electrophoresis of the ITS2 region [57-62]
e 181 - Change "Denature" to Changed.
enaturing."
e 210 - Insert period after Inserted
anscriptome."
e 260 - Are the mentioned GO terms We performed the enrichment test on DAVID. The
ually statistically overrepresented? This overrepresentation of some of the processes has
be examined via a hypergeometric test been noted in the manuscript (Lines 182-184).
differentially expressed GO terms
inst the background (all GO terms from
contigs).
e 349 - Too colloquial, consider Sentence modified to (Lines 360-362):
ording However, a group of genes involved in protein
synthesis and transport were up-regulated in the
bleached colonies one year after bleaching,
perhaps in an effort to overcompensate the
observed down-regulation observed during the
bleaching event.
Society Open
