Regional differentiation and extensive hybridization
between mitochondrial clades of the Southern Ocean giant
sea spider Colossendeis megalonyx
Lars Dietz, Claudia P. Arango, Jana S. Dömel, Kenneth M. Halanych, Avril M. Harder,
Christoph Held, Andrew R. Mahon, Christoph Mayer, Roland R. Melzer, Greg Rouse,
Andrea Weis, Nerida G. Wilson and Florian Leese
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140424.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140424
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 28 May 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 27 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 29 June 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140424.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Data will be made available from GenBank, but currently are not! This needs to be followed up at
revision stage.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper presents an exciting set of data, describing genetic differentiation and bybridisation
among Southern Ocean populations of pycnogonid, C. megalonyx.
The data presented are unique, as a wide (circum-Antarctic) network of samples was mobilised
for this work, including form adjacent sub-Antarctoc region. The paper challenges previous
assumption of a network of cryptic species in this species based on COI alone; previous work by
Krabbe et al. was based on smaller sample size only. The limited use of molecular markers when
discriminating species from cold and deep waters has traditionally been a problem; usually,
sample size is also rather low and/or des not cover significant geographic range.
The present work increases the data available for COI (500 sequences) and includes sequences
from the ITS (nuclear) regions but for a subset of these specimens.
The results confirm previous conclusions that the presence of cryptic species should not be
inferred from mitochondrial data alone.
The haplotype network analysis demonstrates that there are circum-Antarctic as well as locally
differentiated distributions/networks. The complexity in the observed patterns points at a
diverse radiation history in this species. This is potentially related to environmental changes eg
Milankovitch cycle of the late Cenozoic. Population bottleneck has been proposed to exist in
relation to the Last Glacial Maximum. The diverse network shown in the present work may even
point at the effects of multiple glaciations of different magnitude and pattern, which may have
caused local differentiations; the 'out of Antarctica' hypothesis discussed is important in this
context. Further, at different glacial maximum, perhaps other glacial refugia (shelf/maritime
Antarctic) may have existed. Though this is difficult to test for, the present paper does, for the
first time, indicate potential evidence of multiple glacial events on the genetic identity of
Southern Ocean species (at least this would help to understand locally derived network that do
not always connect over long distance).
As such, this work is highly relevant and should be published. Currently, the body of literature
does largely concentrate on effects of the Last glacial maximum on fauna; I think the authors may
wish to briefly discuss whether their data could be an indicator of the above proposed scenario.
Generally, I am not happy that the authors have neither considered nor discussed the work by
Dambach et al. (PLOS ONE 2012) which for the first time modelled the availability of habitat at
the Last Glacial Maximum; to overlook this paper is no good, as it helps the story developed here
and overall the body of literature available is rather limited. The paper identifies the South
Georgia Refugium (or sub-Antarctic) and as such is the closest analytic approach to date (refer to
discussion from line 324). The paper by Thatje et al. (Ecology 2008) was the first to assess
variability in ice extent in glacials driving these thoughts and should be included (lines 251
on..also lines 375..). References used in this context are inappropriate, as these do not provide any
environmental context, only molecular data! From line 386.... perhaps include the idea of the
effects of multiple glaciations here; note that glacial most likely varied in magnitude and perhaps
even local glacial history.
other comments:
Abstracts; do you mean 'paradigm'? Dogma appears too strong wording.
line 65; you refer to only one Concept in above text (= singular)
3
The abstract needs some work; it does not flow well and is too method-heavy. The summary of
conclusions in the Abstract is 'under-selling' (and technical; no evolutionary view..) and in its
present form not very appealing to a general audience.
Methods appear sound.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140424)
30-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Leese,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Regional differentiation and extensive hybridisation
between mitochondrial clades of the Southern Ocean giant sea spider Colossendeis megalonyx")
has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 23-May-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
4
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
We have now obtained two reviews for this manuscript and both of them are, overall, positive
and suggest that this work should ultimately be published in RSOS. However, they also raise
some points, which the authors should address in a revised version. Reviewer 1 has some general
comments on the interpretation of the data with respect to glaciation cycles and feels that the
available literature is not properly reflected. Reviewer 2 suggests an additional analyses and
points to some language issues. Some more minor comments are also provided. I thus would like
to ask the authors to address all these issues in a revised version of the manuscript.
5
Editorial comments:
Reviewer 2's comments were passed on confidentially, to summarise they suggest that you
include bGMYC analyses of Reid and Carsten (2012). The ppint out that this has shown to be
better in a recent simulation study by Dellicour and Flot (online first in Systematic Biology:
doi:10.1093/sysbio/syu130). The reviewer indicates that the software is freely available form
Reid's website in the form of an R library.
Reviewer 2 would also like to see a very careful revision of the language in your manuscript.
Please ensure both these issues are addressed.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper presents an exciting set of data, describing genetic differentiation and bybridisation
among Southern Ocean populations of pycnogonid, C. megalonyx.
The data presented are unique, as a wide (circum-Antarctic) network of samples was mobilised
for this work, including form adjacent sub-Antarctoc region. The paper challenges previous
assumption of a network of cryptic species in this species based on COI alone; previous work by
Krabbe et al. was based on smaller sample size only. The limited use of molecular markers when
discriminating species from cold and deep waters has traditionally been a problem; usually,
sample size is also rather low and/or des not cover significant geographic range.
The present work increases the data available for COI (500 sequences) and includes sequences
from the ITS (nuclear) regions but for a subset of these specimens.
The results confirm previous conclusions that the presence of cryptic species should not be
inferred from mitochondrial data alone.
The haplotype network analysis demonstrates that there are circum-Antarctic as well as locally
differentiated distributions/networks. The complexity in the observed patterns points at a
diverse radiation history in this species. This is potentially related to environmental changes eg
Milankovitch cycle of the late Cenozoic. Population bottleneck has been proposed to exist in
relation to the Last Glacial Maximum. The diverse network shown in the present work may even
point at the effects of multiple glaciations of different magnitude and pattern, which may have
caused local differentiations; the 'out of Antarctica' hypothesis discussed is important in this
context. Further, at different glacial maximum, perhaps other glacial refugia (shelf/maritime
Antarctic) may have existed. Though this is difficult to test for, the present paper does, for the
first time, indicate potential evidence of multiple glacial events on the genetic identity of
Southern Ocean species (at least this would help to understand locally derived network that do
not always connect over long distance).
As such, this work is highly relevant and should be published. Currently, the body of literature
does largely concentrate on effects of the Last glacial maximum on fauna; I think the authors may
wish to briefly discuss whether their data could be an indicator of the above proposed scenario.
Generally, I am not happy that the authors have neither considered nor discussed the work by
Dambach et al. (PLOS ONE 2012) which for the first time modelled the availability of habitat at
the Last Glacial Maximum; to overlook this paper is no good, as it helps the story developed here
and overall the body of literature available is rather limited. The paper identifies the South
Georgia Refugium (or sub-Antarctic) and as such is the closest analytic approach to date (refer to
discussion from line 324). The paper by Thatje et al. (Ecology 2008) was the first to assess
variability in ice extent in glacials driving these thoughts and should be included (lines 251
on..also lines 375..). References used in this context are inappropriate, as these do not provide any
environmental context, only molecular data! From line 386.... perhaps include the idea of the
6
effects of multiple glaciations here; note that glacial most likely varied in magnitude and perhaps
even local glacial history.
other comments:
Abstracts; do you mean 'paradigm'? Dogma appears too strong wording.
line 65; you refer to only one Concept in above text (= singular)
The abstract needs some work; it does not flow well and is too method-heavy. The summary of
conclusions in the Abstract is 'under-selling' (and technical; no evolutionary view..) and in its
present form not very appealing to a general audience.
Methods appear sound.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
N/A
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140424)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140424.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Sven Thatje)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
n/a - Genbank
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
7
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a great contribution to the field, and the effort taken to gather the necessary samples/data
serves as lead example for polar research.
Congratulations!
sven Thatje
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140424.R1)
16-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Leese:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140424.R1
entitled "Regional differentiation and extensive hybridisation between mitochondrial clades of
the Southern Ocean giant sea spider Colossendeis megalonyx" has been accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, so please carefully proofread
your article and respond to the below editorial requests.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. Thank you for
stating that your sequence data will be deposited in GenBank. Please include the accession
numbers in your revised manuscript. Please also deposit your alignments and phylogenetic trees
in an appropriate repository and include details of this in your data accessibility section. We
suggest TreeBASE (http://treebase.org/).
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 25-Jun-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
8
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140424.R1)
Dear editor, dear reviewer, Please find our revised version of the manuscript attached. As
requested we have added the GenBank accession numbers as well as a link to a TreeBase project
website with the alignments and trees. We have adjusted the addresses of the senior author (new
address from July 1st 2015). In addition, we have once more polished language and tenses in
several paragraphs together with the co-author Claudia P Arango to further improve readability.
With best regards Florian Leese
Appendix A
Response to the Referees
Dear Editor, dear referees,
Thank you for the most helpful comments on various aspects of our manuscript. We
have accepted all suggestions raised by the referees/editor (responses highlighted in
green) except one (highlighted in blue)! In addition, we were able to include several
new sequences for the COI and the ITS gene fragments and recalculated all
analyses / redrew the figures. We included Jana Doemel as a new author, as she
provided the sequences. The even further extended data set fully agrees with our
earlier results but further improve the strength of our manuscript. We have included
the required “ethics statement” section.
A detailed response to the referee’s comments is found below:
Referee 1:
The paper presents an exciting set of data, describing genetic differentiation and bybridisation among
Southern Ocean populations of pycnogonid, C. megalonyx.
The data presented are unique, as a wide (circum-Antarctic) network of samples was mobilised for this
work, including form adjacent sub-Antarctoc region. The paper challenges previous assumption of a
network of cryptic species in this species based on COI alone; previous work by Krabbe et al. was
based on smaller sample size only. The limited use of molecular markers when discriminating species
from cold and deep waters has traditionally been a problem; usually, sample size is also rather low
and/or des not cover significant geographic range.
The present work increases the data available for COI (500 sequences) and includes sequences from
the ITS (nuclear) regions but for a subset of these specimens.
The results confirm previous conclusions that the presence of cryptic species should not be inferred
from mitochondrial data alone.
The haplotype network analysis demonstrates that there are circum-Antarctic as well as locally
differentiated distributions/networks. The complexity in the observed patterns points at a diverse
radiation history in this species. This is potentially related to environmental changes eg Milankovitch
cycle of the late Cenozoic. Population bottleneck has been proposed to exist in relation to the Last
Glacial Maximum. The diverse network shown in the present work may even point at the effects of
multiple glaciations of different magnitude and pattern, which may have caused local differentiations;
the 'out of Antarctica' hypothesis discussed is important in this context. Further, at different glacial
maximum, perhaps other glacial refugia (shelf/maritime Antarctic) may have existed. Though this is
difficult to test for, the present paper does, for the first time, indicate potential evidence of multiple
glacial events on the genetic identity of Southern Ocean species (at least this would help to
understand locally derived network that do not always connect over long distance).
As such, this work is highly relevant and should be published. Currently, the body of literature does
largely concentrate on effects of the Last glacial maximum on fauna; I think the authors may wish to
briefly discuss whether their data could be an indicator of the above proposed scenario.
Reply: A detailed analyses of the influence of the late Cenozoic ice ages (not only
the last) is indeed a very important point and we extended the manuscript
substantially in this respect (including an additional paragraph in the discussion,
seven new references, see also comment below).
Specific tests on the effects of the last glaciations on genetic diversity and
demographic structure are a topic itself and we have addressed this including in
detail in another manuscript (Dietz & Leese in preparation).
Generally, I am not happy that the authors have neither considered nor discussed the work by
Dambach et al. (PLOS ONE 2012) which for the first time modelled the availability of habitat at the
Last Glacial Maximum; to overlook this paper is no good, as it helps the story developed here and
overall the body of literature available is rather limited. The paper identifies the South Georgia
Refugium (or sub-Antarctic) and as such is the closest analytic approach to date (refer to discussion
from line 324). The paper by Thatje et al. (Ecology 2008) was the first to assess variability in ice extent
in glacials driving these thoughts and should be included (lines 251 on..also lines 375..). References
used in this context are inappropriate, as these do not provide any environmental context, only
molecular data! From line 386.... perhaps include the idea of the effects of multiple glaciations here;
note that glacial most likely varied in magnitude and perhaps even local glacial history.
Reply: We extended the abstract, the introcution and the discussion to better address
this point. In particular we split the “Out of Antarctica” paragraph and created a new
one “Multiple in situ glacial refugia”. We included and briefly discussed seven highly
important references (including the once metioned by the referee here [thanks!]) to
better reflect the raised points.
other comments:
Abstracts; do you mean 'paradigm'? Dogma appears too strong wording.
Reply: changed (in the introduction, word not used in the abstract)
line 65; you refer to only one Concept in above text (= singular)
Reply: changed
The abstract needs some work; it does not flow well and is too method-heavy. The summary of
conclusions in the Abstract is 'under-selling' (and technical; no evolutionary view..) and in its present
form not very appealing to a general audience.
Reply: We agree! We reworked the abstract substantially.
Methods appear sound.
Reply: We extended the methods by bGMYC analyses as suggested by referee 2
Editorial comments:
Reviewer 2's comments were passed on confidentially, to summarise they suggest that you include
bGMYC analyses of Reid and Carsten (2012). The ppint out that this has shown to be better in a
recent simulation study by Dellicour and Flot (online first in Systematic Biology:
doi:10.1093/sysbio/syu130). The reviewer indicates that the software is freely available form Reid's
website in the form of an R library.
Reply: Thanks for the helpful advice, we have performed the analyses using bGMYC
as well and added this to the manuscript. However, the results in this case agree with
the GMYC analyses (20 distinct entities).
Reviewer 2 would also like to see a very careful revision of the language in your manuscript. Please
ensure both these issues are addressed.
Reply: The paper has been proof-read by two very experienced co-authors (KHM,
ARM) and they corrected language issues.
Society Open
