Are there statistical links between the direction of European
weather systems and ENSO, the solar cycle or stratospheric
aerosols?
Benjamin A. Laken and Frode Stordal
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150320.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150320
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 July 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 January 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150320.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
DETAILED REVIEW
General remarks
1. The statistical analysis is thorough and clear but it is somehow deficient in discussing the
physics/mechanisms and in explaining the results.
2. In the present form, the manuscript has practically two separate parts: an analysis of the
HBGWL weather systems (based on figs 1-4) and a statistical analysis of the extremes. The first
part definitely contains some important information but the reason for including it in the present
analysis and how this is relevant for the main conclusions is not clear. There is no reference in the
second part to any particular aspect of weather system characteristics from the statistical point of
view.
3. Is this a one author article (some statements are in 1-st singular)
Introduction:
1. The statement relating publication of so—called false positive results with politically
motivated groups is subjective and has no scientific loading; a similar statement could be
subjectively made about any publication, regardless of its ‘political correctness’. The reason for
publishing Open Science is simply that it increases the transparency of the work; this would be a
more than enough reason.
Data and Methods
1. Violin plots, Kernel desnity estimates and correlation matrix have to be explained in
more detail. A reference for the use/interpretation of violin plots should be given. How the
results shown in these plots are relevant for the main analysis should be discussed.
2. The selection of sample selection should be more clearly described (i. e. “removing dates
which reoccur?” ). Why use the term epoch instead of the simpler and clearer ‘month’?
Results
1. Figure 8 is very difficult to read; colors and dots are superimposed; I suggest that the
authors redo the figure: enlarge each plot, keep only those plots which are important for the
discussion, since the table is also given, or use heavier lines.
2. I believe that p/NAO Positive (page 10, lower part) has a negative exponent
3. The paragraph about solar result should be re-written, it is not clear.
4. What is the physical meaning of negative epochs for assessing forcings of the flows in the
case of solar min or max? While this may be possible for internal climatic processes, how could
the flow respond to future changes in solar activity?
5. Significant results shown in fig 8 e. g. at epochs -20 or 20, -10 or 10 are not discussed. Are
they relevant? If yes, they should be also considered; if no, they should be removed.
6. Fig 9 says : “several epochs”; is it only epoch 0?
Discussion
1. The discussion does not take into account the biases introduced by the selection process
of the extremes, i.e. what the author (authors) blame as possible cause of other (possibly) biased
results.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Remi Thieblemont)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The authors make very clear how to access the supporting data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Comments are attached (see Appendix A).
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Rasmus Benestad)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, on Figshare.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
4
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I think parts of the paper (mainly methods) can benefit from more careful
explanation/description of why and how the analysis is done the way it is. Please see the annoted
PDF. Also, I wonder what the 'violin plots' in Fig convey.
One of my major points is a question about the last 3 Grosswetterlagens as only 26 out of 29 were
used. Why only 26? What kind of circulation did the last three represent, and how important
were they? Would there still be similar findings if the analysis was repeated for each of the
grosswetterlagen types separately? (no need to plot) Another is that the analysis presents a
number of tests for different factors, and hence a field test should be applied (the Walker test;
Wilks, 2006). However, I do not expect this to have a big impact on the conclusions. Other issues
include explaining why using KDEs and CDPs as opposed to PDFs and EDFs.
A minor issue is to avoid the adjective 'extreme' as this term usually is reserved for extreme-
valuer analysis.
Wilks, D. S. “On ‘Field Significance’ and the False Discovery Rate.” Journal of Applied
Meteorology and Climatology 45, no. 9 (September 2006): 1181–89. doi:10.1175/JAM2404.1.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150320)
10-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Laken,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Examining the origins of European weather systems during
extreme phases of the NAO, ENSO and the Solar cycle") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 03-Dec-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
5
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150320
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr David Beerling):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both referees support publication and make a number of helpful suggestions relating to further
analyses in relation to methods, textual clarifications and discussion in relation to the relevant
literature, currently missing, that the authors will need to address.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I think parts of the paper (mainly methods) can benefit from more careful
explanation/description of why and how the analysis is done the way it is. Please see the annoted
PDF. Also, I wonder what the 'violin plots' in Fig convey.
One of my major points is a question about the last 3 Grosswetterlagens as only 26 out of 29 were
used. Why only 26? What kind of circulation did the last three represent, and how important
were they? Would there still be similar findings if the analysis was repeated for each of the
grosswetterlagen types separately? (no need to plot) Another is that the analysis presents a
number of tests for different factors, and hence a field test should be applied (the Walker test;
Wilks, 2006). However, I do not expect this to have a big impact on the conclusions. Other issues
include explaining why using KDEs and CDPs as opposed to PDFs and EDFs.
A minor issue is to avoid the adjective 'extreme' as this term usually is reserved for extreme-
valuer analysis.
Wilks, D. S. “On ‘Field Significance’ and the False Discovery Rate.” Journal of Applied
Meteorology and Climatology 45, no. 9 (September 2006): 1181–89. doi:10.1175/JAM2404.1.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Comments are attached.
7
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
DETAILED REVIEW
General remarks
1. The statistical analysis is thorough and clear but it is somehow deficient in discussing the
physics/mechanisms and in explaining the results.
2. In the present form, the manuscript has practically two separate parts: an analysis of the
HBGWL weather systems (based on figs 1-4) and a statistical analysis of the extremes. The first
part definitely contains some important information but the reason for including it in the present
analysis and how this is relevant for the main conclusions is not clear. There is no reference in the
second part to any particular aspect of weather system characteristics from the statistical point of
view.
3. Is this a one author article (some statements are in 1-st singular)
Introduction:
1. The statement relating publication of so—called false positive results with politically
motivated groups is subjective and has no scientific loading; a similar statement could be
subjectively made about any publication, regardless of its ‘political correctness’. The reason for
publishing Open Science is simply that it increases the transparency of the work; this would be a
more than enough reason.
Data and Methods
1. Violin plots, Kernel desnity estimates and correlation matrix have to be explained in
more detail. A reference for the use/interpretation of violin plots should be given. How the
results shown in these plots are relevant for the main analysis should be discussed.
2. The selection of sample selection should be more clearly described (i. e. “removing dates
which reoccur?” ). Why use the term epoch instead of the simpler and clearer ‘month’?
Results
1. Figure 8 is very difficult to read; colors and dots are superimposed; I suggest that the
authors redo the figure: enlarge each plot, keep only those plots which are important for the
discussion, since the table is also given, or use heavier lines.
2. I believe that p/NAO Positive (page 10, lower part) has a negative exponent
3. The paragraph about solar result should be re-written, it is not clear.
4. What is the physical meaning of negative epochs for assessing forcings of the flows in the
case of solar min or max? While this may be possible for internal climatic processes, how could
the flow respond to future changes in solar activity?
5. Significant results shown in fig 8 e. g. at epochs -20 or 20, -10 or 10 are not discussed. Are
they relevant? If yes, they should be also considered; if no, they should be removed.
6. Fig 9 says : “several epochs”; is it only epoch 0?
Discussion
1. The discussion does not take into account the biases introduced by the selection process
of the extremes, i.e. what the author (authors) blame as possible cause of other (possibly) biased
results.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150320
8
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150320
MS Title: Examining the origins of European weather systems during extreme phases of the
NAO, ENSO and the Solar cycle
MS Authors: Laken, Benjamin; Stordal, Frode
Contact Author: Benjamin Laken
Contact Author Email: benlaken@gmail.com
Contact Author Address 1: Postboks 1022 Blindern
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Oslo
Contact Author State: Oslo
Contact Author Country: Norway
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 0315
Keywords: Weather, ENSO, Solar cycle, wind
Abstract: Palaeoclimate data indicate links between regional climate and solar activity, however
modern data-sets do not clearly confirm this. Potential explanations for this disparity include the
short length of data relative to the 11-year solar cycle, and complications to statistical analyses
from internal climate variability. In this context, Hess Brezowsky Großwetterlagen (HBGWL)
weather types are of interest. Their simple nature has enabled the accumulation of a long (>130
yr) record, yet they still provide useful indications of synoptic scale weather conditions. Using an
IPython Notebook (Laken, 2015a), we have examined changes in the origin of weather system
during extreme phases of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), El Niño Southern Oscillation
(ENSO) and the Solar cycle using superposed epoch analysis and Monte Carlo significance
testing. When examining the data irrespective of season, the weather systems showed a highly-
significant responses to the NAO, while changes associated with ENSO and solar activity were
non-significant. However, winter-time only samples showed marginally significant reductions in
easterly flow during Solar Minimum and northerly reductions with La Niña, comparable to the
response during positive NAO phases. Although the winter-time results were suggestive, due to
the uncertainty of their significance we conclude that the HBGWL data do not yield an
unambiguously clear Solar or ENSO signal.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150320)
See Appendix B.
pendix A
Review of “Examining the origins of European weather systems during extreme phases of the NAO,
ENSO and the Solar cycle” by Laken B. and Stordal F.
viewer: Rémi Thiéblemont, GEOMAR – Helmholtz Institute for Ocean Research Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
This study uses Hess Brezowsky Großwetterlagen data to examine the relationship between the
ther systems in Europe and three variability factors: the NAO, ENSO and Solar cycle. This dataset
ers a long period ~130 years and is thus statistically highly relevant to investigate Solar and ENSO
cts which operate on multiannual to decadal timescales. Using epoch super-positional samples, they
clude that there are highly significant weather system changes associated with positive and negative
O phases. Conversely, the effect of solar and ENSO are found marginally significant for the winter
nths only, and not when examining the data irrespective of the season.
my opinion, this work is innovative and of great scientific interest as it tackles the question of Solar
ENSO influences on European climate using the HBGWL long term dataset which has only been
ly used in the topic. This work is also very carefully conducted regarding statistical methods and
ws a great knowledge of the authors in this field. On the other hand, I think that presently the statistics
rtake the physics so that conclusions of the analysis can be misleading. Also, the way the composite
ples are defined does not seem to me adequate to examine multiannual to decadal climate variability,
ch then may again lead to misleading conclusions. Finally, many important references that this work
uld consider for the relevance of the study regarding climate physics are missing.
s I would suggest more analysis to be required before considering this work for publication in Royal
iety Open Science. Please find more detailed comments below.
in comments:
- From what I understand, the epoch super-positional extreme sampling is defined so that 11
extreme cases (= 11 months out of ~12*110=1320 months for §3.a and 11 winters out of ~110
winters for §3.b) from each phase (minimum or maximum) of either solar, ENSO or NAO are
selected to define composites. This method raises several concerns and might trigger misleading
conclusions:
1. Regarding Fig. 5, it is really obvious that NAO, ENSO and Solar do not vary on the same
timescales and that the notion of “extreme” should be considered differently for the three
cases. While taking 11 “extreme” months to define a sample makes sense to investigate
processes that have a very strong month-to-month variability (like the NAO), it seems to me
less appropriate for processes operating on multiannual/decadal timescale (like ENSO and
Solar). Sampling isolated months helps identifying extreme “monthly” timescale signals.
Similarly when the same is done for extreme winters: why is 1 winter/cycle chosen to
describe solar maximum conditions, while from Fig. 5, solar maxima seem rather lasting 2 to
3 winters? Furthermore, by selecting 1 winter/cycle, the resulting composite might be
strongly dominated by interannual variability, but it does not mean that there is no solar
effect. It would rather mean that the interannual variability is stronger than the decadal
variability, when decadal variability is found. So I do not believe that the present method
allows conclusive results regarding potential effects of either solar or ENSO variability, but
only NAO. In other words, I’m questioning: is it relevant to conclude that there are no
changes associated with solar variability when 11 months out of 1320 are used to investigate
decadal signals on weather system which have a clear dominant monthly variability? The
authors should adapt the method to processes operating at timescales longer than 1 month, by
for example defining longer extreme periods.
2. More specific to § 3.a. The authors explain that they removed the seasonality before doing
their analysis. It is however well established from previous studies that the transfer
mechanisms from the solar into climate variability strongly depend on the season. Thus
removing seasonality in the data does not help solving the problem related to the monthly
dependence of the signals. As the authors mention, the solar/NAO relationship is mainly seen
in winter. The reason is that the stratosphere is in fact highly dynamically active in winter and
that the solar signal can be transferred from the stratosphere to the troposphere during this
season (due to the presence of the polar vortex). According to the method described here, the
chosen 11 months can be whatever month which seems misleading to me since the solar
signal is not expected to be the same for the different seasons. The authors should carefully
consider always using the same months for the reasons explained above. Although this can be
seen as a form of data restriction in a statistical frame, it is more physically meaningful.
3. More specific to § 3.b. Recent studies have shown that the solar/NAO relationship is stronger
after a delay of 2 to 3 years (Scaife et al., 2013, Gray et al., 2013) due to the
ocean/atmosphere coupling. It would be very relevant to investigate this in addition in part
3.b.
- I think that the paper lacks of references to recent major modeling and observational studies (see
also previous comment and specific comments). The paper is statistically very strong but does not
really take into consideration physical processes that have been proposed and which are also
extremely important when examining solar and ENSO influence on European climate. The
statistical analysis in this paper would gain at being more connected to physical arguments.
- It is confusing to me that the NAO, ENSO and Solar are treated very often on the same level in
this paper (e.g. P1, l36-39), while they are fundamentally very different things. The NAO is the
first Europe climate variability mode and thus weather systems strongly depend on its phase. So
unsurprisingly, very strong and significant relationships link them because they are part of the
same system and even depend on each other. Conversely, ENSO and solar forcings (although they
are also very different by nature) are external to European region and we cannot expect as strong
links to weather systems in Europe as for the NAO. I would thus suggest to clearly separate the
results between NAO (which is not a forcing) and the rest.
- Regarding my previous comment, I would also suggest to extend the study by considering the
effect of major volcanic eruptions: this could, I believe, enrich the study by adding another very
important and highly discussed external forcing on European climate. The Sato index, which
provides the stratospheric aerosols optical thickness, is available at the following address
http://data.giss.nasa.gov/modelforce/strataer/.
cific comments:
n text
- Abstract, l42: change “Solar minimum” to “Solar maximum” (according to Fig. 9) (?).
- P2, l28-29: “… currently speculative”. I would like to see references to support this statement (to
which I agree in some extents). Please develop the reasons why mechanisms are speculative.
- P2, l28-35: Following my previous point, I think that this paragraph crucially lacks of references
to studies that have been performed with climate models and which investigated solar/NAO
relationship and/or the mechanisms. Over the last decade, many studies have been conducted in
this sense and brought significant advances that should be mentioned in the present paper. So I
would recommend to look at the following references: Matthes et al. (2006) ; Ineson et al.
(2011) ; Scaife et al. (2013) ; Gray et al. (2013) ; Ineson et al. (2015), and many others. The
authors may also consider citing Kodera and Kuroda (2002) concerning the mechanisms
involving the stratosphere and Gray et al. (2010) which provided an extended review of the
different mechanisms.
- P3, l22-42: Major volcanic eruptions are also proposed as being a significant forcing which
affects the NAO (e.g. Ortega et al., 2015, Stenchikov et al., 2002). Furthermore, it has been
shown that the last major volcanic eruptions (El Chichón, 1982, Pinatubo, 1991) coincided with
solar maximum phases and might consequently alias the “solar signal” (e.g. Chiodo et al., 2014).
I think it might be very relevant to consider volcanic forcing for this paper, in addition to ENSO
and solar forcing.
- P4, l36-46 and Fig. 3: What is the information here? Is this part really necessary to understand the
results? It seems to me that the violin plots (Fig. 2) might be sufficient.
- P4, l47-56 and Fig. 5: Similarly to the previous comment, I do not really understand the point of
the correlation matrix and the associated paragraph. What is the conclusion of this data analysis?
- P7, l35: a stratospheric pathway is also proposed to describe ENSO remote influence on Europe
and Eurasia and is currently drawing a lot of attention (e.g. Butler et al., 2014). Please consider
mentioning it too.
- P7, l54: 1871 or 1881?
- P7, l56: Why +- 365 days also for the NAO? Please justify.
- P11, l42: Why “I” instead of “We”?
- P13, l41: typo “relatively”
- P13, l54: typo “categories”
- P15, l52: typo “La Niña”
ures and captions
- Caption Fig. 2: Please indicate the meaning of the dashed lines.
- Fig. 5: Please consider marking the extreme cases that have been selected on the plot.
erences
ler, A. H., Polvani, L. M. & Deser, C. Separating the stratospheric and tropospheric pathways of El
o–Southern Oscillation teleconnections. Environ. Res. Lett. 9, 024014 (2014).
odo, G., D. R. Marsh, R. Garcia-Herrera, N. Calvo, and J. A. Garcia (2014), On the detection of the
r signal in the tropical stratosphere. Atmos. Chem. Phys., 14:5251-5269.
y, L. J. et al. (2010), Solar influences on climate, Rev. Geophys., 48, RG4001.
y, L. J., A. A. Scaife, D. M. Mitchell, S. Osprey, S. Ineson, S. Hardiman, N. Butchart, J. Knight, R.
on, and K. Kodera (2013), A lagged response to the 11 year solar cycle in observed winter
antic/European weather patterns, J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 13,405–13,420,
10.1002/2013JD020062
on, S. et al. Solar forcing of winter climate variability in the northern hemisphere. Nat. Geosci. 4,
–757 (2011).
on, S. et al. Regional climate impacts of a possible future grand solar minimum. Nat. Commun.
535 doi: 10.1038/ncomms8535 (2015).
era, K., and Y. Kuroda (2002), Dynamical response to the solar cycle, J. Geophys. Res., 17, 4749.
thes, K., Kuroda, Y., Kodera, K. and Langematz, U. (2006) Transfer of the solar signal from the
tosphere to the troposphere: Northern winter Journal of Geophysical Research, 111 (D6). DOI
1029/2005JD006283.
ega, P., et al., (2015), A model-tested North Atlantic Oscillation reconstruction for the past millennium,
ure, 523, 71–74, doi:10.1038/nature14518.
ife, A. A., S. Ineson, J. R. Knight, L. Gray, K. Kodera, and D. M. Smith (2013), A mechanism for
ed North Atlantic climate response to solar variability, Geophys. Res. Lett., 40, 434–439,
10.1002/grl.50099.
nchikov, G., A. Robock, V. Ramaswamy, M. D. Schwarzkopf, K. Hamilton, and S. Ramachandran,
tic Oscillation response to the 1991 Mount Pinatubo eruption: Effects of volcanic aerosols and ozone
letion, J. Geophys. Res., 107 (D24), 4803, doi:10.1029/2002JD002090, 2002.
kindly thank you for your attention regarding our Roy. Soc. Open Science manuscript and are grateful for
detailed reviews given by the referees. We have attempted to address their concerns in our updated
nuscript, and hope that you will find these changes acceptable. Our replies to their specific comments can
ound below, interspersed in blue font with the referees original comments.
marily, we find that the referees have commented on the fact that our work is a statistically-focused study:
is indeed true, and we have underscored this point in this revision (including adding this emphasis to the
of the study), so as not to give readers the false impression that we discuss physical processes. This is a
scious and important decision on our part, and the majority of existing studies (especially those which
m strong solar-influences on regional weather/climate) do so from a statistical standpoint. Moreover, we
e that our focus on the reproducible data science/statistical aspects of this research was the motivation for
mission to this journal.
ed on the referee comments we have extended our analysis to include a more detailed seasonal
riction, and removed our lagged analysis, which in the end served no significant purpose in relation to the
clusions. (We note that the lagged analysis feature remains in the online supporting software, so any
rested individuals may perform this part of the analysis directly.) We have made efforts to increase the
lity and clarity of the text, supporting software design, and figures. We have also slightly changed the
s regarding our sample construction and added an additional variable (stratospheric aerosols) following
suggestions of Dr. Rémi Thiéblemont. These changes have not modified our main conclusions, although
extension of the seasonal analysis did reveal an additional positive result (namely evidence of an
ociation between ENSO and Southerly flow during boreal summer).
note that our goal with this research was to serve a broad scientific audience, with an emphasis on
erstandable statistics and reproducible science using an Open Source approach. We believe this to be
st useful as our research touches on may different disciplines and must therefore be clear to workers
oss a broad spectrum–something that preceding studies have often failed to accomplish. Therefore, we
e resisted changes that would have sent our work down an interesting but wholly different path to that
ch we intend, towards the hard-core of the atmospheric physics/climate modelling discipline.
would also like to stress our enthusiasm towards this nascent journal and the Open Science philosophy,
in particular, we also wish to thank Dr. Thiéblemont for his contributions and for so fully supporting the
n journal practices.
Sincerely,
Benjamin A. Laken and Frode Stordal
ociate Editor's comments, Dr David Beerling:
h referees support publication and make a number of helpful suggestions relating to further analyses in
tion to methods, textual clarifications and discussion in relation to the relevant literature, currently
sing, that the authors will need to address.
iewer: 1
ink parts of the paper (mainly methods) can benefit from more careful explanation/description of why and
the analysis is done the way it is. Please see the annoted PDF. Also, I wonder what the 'violin plots' in
convey.
ther clarifications regarding the violin plots have now been added.
of my major points is a question about the last 3 Grosswetterlagens as only 26 out of 29 were used. Why
y 26?
have added a citation to James (2007), Table 5, the source of this grouping.
at kind of circulation did the last three represent, and how important were they?
have now added this clarification, in relation to the last point raised, to the manuscript.
test the reviewer proposes would address how consistent the assigned HBGWL-types are to wind
ction, as, if there is a physically consistent correlation (e.g. to the NAO index), then breaking/re-shuffling
categories would weaken or destroy the ‘signal’, while isolating the individual HBGWL types would,
ending on the noise across individual types, isolate the HBGWL types with the clearest response.
iquing the subjective HBGWL classifications, and their super-type groupings, would be beyond the scope
his work. Further, we note that we are confident in the physical consistency of the super-type grouping
to the observed response to the NAO, a factor we comment on in the work.
other is that the analysis presents a number of tests for different factors, and hence a field test should be
lied (the Walker test; Wilks, 2006). However, I do not expect this to have a big impact on the conclusions.
have added notes throughout relating to the FDR (including a citation to Wilks) and how it relates to the
rpretation of marginally significant results in our work.
er issues include explaining why using KDEs and CDPs as opposed to PDFs and EDFs.
have elected to use popular Open Source Python packages, common to the Python Data Science
munity. These approaches are essentially equivalent to those the reviewer suggests. (I believe a module
eback from the Seaborne library shows the KDE routines originate from the open source
smodel.tools.tools.ECDF package. This info and all code is available in the software provided, giving
rs the ability to implement their favoured methods (such as PDF over KDE) on our analysis.
inor issue is to avoid the adjective 'extreme' as this term usually is reserved for extreme-valuer analysis.
the reviewers suggestion we have modified this language, to their suggestion of ‘peak phase’ and other
ivalent terms.
iewer: 3
eral remarks
he statistical analysis is thorough and clear but it is somehow deficient in discussing the physics/
hanisms and in explaining the results.
have added some further material and citations, but we stress that this is a statistical study, not a paper
ling in theoretical solar—terrestrial mechanisms via specific solar forcing parameters.
the present form, the manuscript has practically two separate parts: an analysis of the HBGWL weather
ems (based on figs 1-4) and a statistical analysis of the extremes. The first part definitely contains some
ortant information but the reason for including it in the present analysis and how this is relevant for the
n conclusions is not clear. There is no reference in the second part to any particular aspect of weather
em characteristics from the statistical point of view.
analysis of the HBGWL data and description are useful to give readers context to the later analysis. The
cture of the article is such that readers can skip these sections on first reading though, and get straight to
important part of the analysis. Later, if they wish for more information, they could return to the section
cribing the data in more depth.
this a one author article (some statements are in 1-st singular)
se typos have now been corrected.
oduction:
he statement relating publication of so—called false positive results with politically motivated groups is
jective and has no scientific loading; a similar statement could be subjectively made about any
lication, regardless of its ‘political correctness’. The reason for publishing Open Science is simply that it
eases the transparency of the work; this would be a more than enough reason.
have removed these sentences, leaving only the reasoning the reviewer suggests.
a and Methods
iolin plots, Kernel desnity estimates and correlation matrix have to be explained in more detail. A
rence for the use/interpretation of violin plots should be given. How the results shown in these plots are
vant for the main analysis should be discussed.
he selection of sample selection should be more clearly described (i. e. “removing dates which
ccur?” ). Why use the term epoch instead of the simpler and clearer ‘month’?
elation to this (and comments from reviewer 2), we have greatly extended the sample selection method
cription.
ults
gure 8 is very difficult to read; colors and dots are superimposed; I suggest that the authors redo the
re: enlarge each plot, keep only those plots which are important for the discussion, since the table is also
en, or use heavier lines.
have considered this comment in addition to similar comments from reviewer 1, and decided to revise
presentation of these figures: Splitting the ‘forcings’ across two panels and keeping only the lag 0 result
clarity (as the others do not affect the conclusions yet remain producible in the accompanying software).
have also given a more intuitive colour scheme.
believe that p/NAO Positive (page 10, lower part) has a negative exponent
reviewer is correct, this typo has now been corrected.
he paragraph about solar result should be re-written, it is not clear.
written.
hat is the physical meaning of negative epochs for assessing forcings of the flows in the case of solar
or max? While this may be possible for internal climatic processes, how could the flow respond to
re changes in solar activity?
re is very low confidence from these results that there is a robust solar result. Therefore we would not
culate on the physical meaningfulness of lags in this context. For this, and other reasons given in this
ew, we have removed the lags from the study in the way they formerly were. They are now included only
ake a supplemental point about the signals confinement to lag 0 and are carefully explained.
gnificant results shown in fig 8 e. g. at epochs -20 or 20, -10 or 10 are not discussed. Are they relevant?
es, they should be also considered; if no, they should be removed.
agree: the lags are now removed from the main figures, and only sparingly discussed when relevant to
significant results.
g 9 says : “several epochs”; is it only epoch 0?
rected.
cussion
he discussion does not take into account the biases introduced by the selection process of the extremes,
what the author (authors) blame as possible cause of other (possibly) biased results.
have attempted to use a logical method of selecting the extreme events for our composite samples, useful
comparison between ‘forcing’ parameters (we consider this the default version of the experiment). It is
that many variations on these methods could be argued for which improve the signal/isolation of specific
cing’ parameters, and we hope that people will attempt to do so and test our results with the software that
have provided. We have added a note to this effect into the manuscript.
iewer 2: Dr. Rémi Thiéblemont
s study uses Hess Brezowsky Großwetterlagen data to examine the relationship between the weather
ems in Europe and three variability factors: the NAO, ENSO and Solar cycle. This dataset covers a long
od ~130 years and is thus statistically highly relevant to investigate Solar and ENSO effects which
rate on multiannual to decadal timescales. Using epoch super-positional samples, they conclude that there
highly significant weather system changes associated with positive and negative NAO phases.
versely, the effect of solar and ENSO are found marginally significant for the winter months only, and
when examining the data irrespective of the season.
he topic. This work is also very carefully conducted regarding statistical methods and shows a great
wledge of the authors in this field. On the other hand, I think that presently the statistics overtake the
sics so that conclusions of the analysis can be misleading. Also, the way the composite samples are
ned does not seem to me adequate to examine multiannual to decadal climate variability, which then may
in lead to misleading conclusions. Finally, many important references that this work should consider for
relevance of the study regarding climate physics are missing.
s I would suggest more analysis to be required before considering this work for publication in Royal
iety Open Science. Please find more detailed comments below.
wish kindly and sincerely thanks to Dr. Thiéblemont for his careful comments and the time he invested in
review. His comments have been of great utility, and we have made many improvements to our analysis
ght of them.
agree that there are many interesting ways to extend/alter this study. But, in general we have resisted
eloping the physical process aspects of this research. This work was intentionally written as a statistical
y with a broad audience in mind, and purposefully submitted to a multi-disciplinary journal with a focus
Open Science methods. Thus, while we have integrated many useful comments, such as the addition of an
rely new dataset to the analysis, and development of the seasonal portion of the work (which has yielded
rprising positive ENSO result), we also wish to maintain our original vision for this work as closely as
sible, as a statistical investigation.
in comments:
m what I understand, the epoch super-positional extreme sampling is defined so that 11 extreme cases (=
months out of ~12*110=1320 months for §3.a and 11 winters out of ~110 winters for §3.b) from each
se (minimum or maximum) of either solar, ENSO or NAO are selected to define composites. This
hod raises several concerns and might trigger misleading conclusions:
Regarding Fig. 5, it is really obvious that NAO, ENSO and Solar do not vary on the same timescales and
that the notion of “extreme” should be considered differently for the three cases. While taking 11
“extreme” months to define a sample makes sense to investigate processes that have a very strong
month-to-month variability (like the NAO), it seems to me less appropriate for processes operating on
multiannual/decadal timescale (like ENSO and Solar). Sampling isolated months helps identifying
extreme “monthly” timescale signals. Similarly when the same is done for extreme winters: why is 1
winter/cycle chosen to describe solar maximum conditions, while from Fig. 5, solar maxima seem rather
lasting 2 to 3 winters? Furthermore, by selecting 1 winter/cycle, the resulting composite might be
strongly dominated by interannual variability, but it does not mean that there is no solar effect. It would
rather mean that the interannual variability is stronger than the decadal variability, when decadal
variability is found. So I do not believe that the present method allows conclusive results regarding
potential effects of either solar or ENSO variability, but only NAO. In other words, I’m questioning: is it
relevant to conclude that there are no changes associated with solar variability when 11 months out of
month, by for example defining longer extreme periods.
have carefully considered this: It is certainly true that using the same sample restriction (no recurrence
hin a ±1 year period) for the ENSO, and NAO events is overly restrictive on the side of the NAO sample
en the short autocorrelation evident in the NAO data. However, weather data is also auto-correlated, and
s setting limits (such as drawing samples from a minimum of distinct years) is important to sample
ance. However, to go some way to meet this request, we have added the facility for users to easily set the
clusion period (as an integer day number) in the code, so that any users can modify this parameter as they
h.
More specific to 3.a. The authors explain that they removed the seasonality before doing their analysis. It
is however well established from previous studies that the transfer mechanisms from the solar into
climate variability strongly depend on the season. Thus removing seasonality in the data does not help
solving the problem related to the monthly dependence of the signals. As the authors mention, the solar/
NAO relationship is mainly seen in winter. The reason is that the stratosphere is in fact highly
dynamically active in winter and that the solar signal can be transferred from the stratosphere to the
troposphere during this season (due to the presence of the polar vortex). According to the method
described here, the chosen 11 months can be whatever month which seems misleading to me since the
solar signal is not expected to be the same for the different seasons. The authors should carefully
consider always using the same months for the reasons explained above. Although this can be seen as a
form of data restriction in a statistical frame, it is more physically meaningful.
seasonality is only removed by way of subtracting climatological mean values from the data. Thus, any
arture from climatological means will appear in the anomaly time series and our analysis.
elation to the reviewers point that the solar effects are suggested to differ by season, indeed, this is our
onale for examining the DJF period in isolation. Considering this comment, we have extended the
lysis to include the other seasons also(MAM, JJA, and SON). Perhaps this provides more balance
ween the statistical approach we have taken, and a priori knowledge of seasonal differences in regional
ther systems. We note that doing so has yielded an interesting and unexpected positive result, the
ntification of a strong teleconnection between JJA Southerly flow and El Nino.
More specific to 3.b. Recent studies have shown that the solar/NAO relationship is stronger after a delay
of 2 to 3 years (Scaife et al., 2013, Gray et al., 2013) due to the ocean/atmosphere coupling. It would be
very relevant to investigate this in addition in part 3.b.
have removed the long term lags (positive and negative) from the manuscript (as they are almost all null-
lts), but the figures are included in the software. For the cases where the lags are interesting to the
ussion they are now included, plotted in a new (hopefully clearer) way.
ink that the paper lacks of references to recent major modeling and observational studies (see also
vious comment and specific comments). The paper is statistically very strong but does not really take into
sideration physical processes that have been proposed and which are also extremely important when
confusing to me that the NAO, ENSO and Solar are treated very often on the same level in this paper
. P1, l36-39), while they are fundamentally very different things. The NAO is the first Europe climate
ability mode and thus weather systems strongly depend on its phase. So unsurprisingly, very strong and
ificant relationships link them because they are part of the same system and even depend on each other.
versely, ENSO and solar forcings (although they are also very different by nature) are external to
opean region and we cannot expect as strong links to weather systems in Europe as for the NAO. I would
s suggest to clearly separate the results between NAO (which is not a forcing) and the rest.
agree fully that these forcing data are not equivalent, and should not be treated equally (for the reasons
reviewer has stated). Indeed, in our introduction, page 3 around line 30-37 (original manuscript
mission), we explain that our primary motivation for examining the relationship between changes in the
d origin and NAO was to provide a benchmark of a significant result, and a consistency/sanity check. We
e now re-iterated this point throughout the paper, and even altered the title to exclude NAO due to its
erent role in the study.
arding my previous comment, I would also suggest to extend the study by considering the effect of major
canic eruptions: this could, I believe, enrich the study by adding another very important and highly
ussed external forcing on European climate. The Sato index, which provides the stratospheric aerosols
cal thickness, is available at the following address http://data.giss.nasa.gov/modelforce/strataer/.
agree this is an interesting area to explore and relevant to the wider climate community. Therefore we
have extended our investigation to include the Sato index.
cific comments:
in text
bstract, l42: change “Solar minimum” to “Solar maximum” (according to Fig. 9) (?). Rewritten.
P2, l28-29: “... currently speculative”. I would like to see references to support this statement (to which I
agree in some extents). Please develop the reasons why mechanisms are speculative.
have not greatly extended this section, as the references and notes are sufficient to direct readers
interested in following the specialist literature.
2, l28-35: Following my previous point, I think that this paragraph crucially lacks of references to studies
that have been performed with climate models and which investigated solar/NAO relationship
and/or the mechanisms. Over the last decade, many studies have been conducted in this sense and
brought significant advances that should be mentioned in the present paper. So I would
recommend to look at the following references: Matthes et al. (2006) ; Ineson et al. (2011) ; Scaife
et al. (2013) ; Gray et al. (2013) ; Ineson et al. (2015), and many others. The authors may also
this is a statistical paper we have not included these details.
3, l22-42: Major volcanic eruptions are also proposed as being a significant forcing which affects the
NAO (e.g. Ortega et al., 2015, Stenchikov et al., 2002). Furthermore, it has been shown that the
last major volcanic eruptions (El Chichón, 1982, Pinatubo, 1991) coincided with solar maximum
phases and might consequently alias the “solar signal” (e.g. Chiodo et al., 2014). I think it might
be very relevant to consider volcanic forcing for this paper, in addition to ENSO and solar forcing.
agree this is an interesting area to explore and relevant to the wider climate community. Therefore we
have extended our investigation to include the Sato index. We have also added the recommend
citations and rationale to the manuscript as described above by Dr. Thiéblemont.
4, l36-46 and Fig. 3: What is the information here? Is this part really necessary to understand the results?
It seems to me that the violin plots (Fig. 2) might be sufficient.
have added clarifications to the description of these data. In particular the KDE/CDF plot relates to the
monthly data, while the violin plot relates to data grouped into seasonally periods.
4, l47-56 and Fig. 5: Similarly to the previous comment, I do not really understand the point of the
correlation matrix and the associated paragraph. What is the conclusion of this data analysis?
agree that the correlation matrix is not directly relevant to the analysis, but it is useful if people wish to
understand the HBGWL data in depth.
7, l35: a stratospheric pathway is also proposed to describe ENSO remote influence on Europe and
Eurasia and is currently drawing a lot of attention (e.g. Butler et al., 2014). Please consider
mentioning it too.
have mentioned this in our discussion.
P7, l54: 1871 or 1881? Re-written.
P7, l56: Why +- 365 days also for the NAO? Please justify.
We have clarified this in Section 2C, detailing the composite production procedure and including a
justification for the exclusive time window.
11, l42: Why “I” instead of “We”? Typo corrected.
13, l41: typo “relatively” Re-written.
13, l54: typo “categories” Re-written.
15, l52: typo “La Niña” Re-written.
ures and captions
aption Fig. 2: Please indicate the meaning of the dashed lines.
Further notes on violin plots added, including explanation of the dashed lines.
ig. 5: Please consider marking the extreme cases that have been selected on the plot.
minimise the amount of visual noise on the figures these have not been marked, but the exact sample
dates are all accessible in the software.
erences
ler, A. H., Polvani, L. M. & Deser, C. Separating the stratospheric and tropospheric pathways of El Niño–
Southern Oscillation teleconnections. Environ. Res. Lett. 9, 024014 (2014).
odo, G., D. R. Marsh, R. Garcia-Herrera, N. Calvo, and J. A. Garcia (2014), On the detection of the solar
signal in the tropical stratosphere. Atmos. Chem. Phys., 14:5251-5269.
y, L. J. et al. (2010), Solar influences on climate, Rev. Geophys., 48, RG4001.
y, L. J., A. A. Scaife, D. M. Mitchell, S. Osprey, S. Ineson, S. Hardiman, N. Butchart, J. Knight, R.
Sutton, and K. Kodera (2013), A lagged response to the 11 year solar cycle in observed winter
Atlantic/European weather patterns, J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 13,405–13,420, doi:
10.1002/2013JD020062
son, S. et al. Solar forcing of winter climate variability in the northern hemisphere. Nat. Geosci. 4, 753–
757 (2011).
son, S. et al. Regional climate impacts of a possible future grand solar minimum. Nat. Commun. 6:7535
doi: 10.1038/ncomms8535 (2015).
dera, K., and Y. Kuroda (2002), Dynamical response to the solar cycle, J. Geophys. Res., 17, 4749.
tthes, K., Kuroda, Y., Kodera, K. and Langematz, U. (2006) Transfer of the solar signal from the
stratosphere to the troposphere: Northern winter Journal of Geophysical Research, 111 (D6). DOI
10.1029/2005JD006283.
ega, P., et al., (2015), A model-tested North Atlantic Oscillation reconstruction for the past millennium,
Nature, 523, 71–74, doi:10.1038/nature14518.
ife, A. A., S. Ineson, J. R. Knight, L. Gray, K. Kodera, and D. M. Smith (2013), A mechanism for lagged
North Atlantic climate response to solar variability, Geophys. Res. Lett., 40, 434–439, doi:10.1002/
grl.50099.
depletion, J. Geophys. Res., 107 (D24), 4803, doi:10.1029/2002JD002090, 2002.
Society Open
