Environmental offsets, resilience and cost-effective
conservation
L. R. Little and R. Q. Grafton
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140521.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140521
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 December 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 14 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 22 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 9 June 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140521.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Joseph Bull)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review: Environmental offsets, resilience and the cost- effectiveness of conservation
In this paper, the authors use a population simulation model to explore the influence of
hypothetical human activity and associated environmental offsets upon the Pimm resilience of a
case study ecosystem. The case study is the Ningaloo Reef of Western Australia, although the
results are generalised.
It is found that - if Pimm resilience is directly dependent upon the number and quality of
connections between sub-populations of a given species - then to some extent a loss in number of
connections can be compensated for by improvements to the quality of remaining connections.
The result is that the negative impacts of human activity are compensated for and there is no loss
in resilience within the system.
The main themes of the paper (resilience and environmental offsets) are highly timely, and to my
knowledge, this is one of the first examples in which offsets have been quantitatively shown to
potentially provide no net loss of ecosystem function.
General comments
I enjoyed this paper, and believe it to be an interesting and novel contribution.
My main comment is that the construction of the model needs to be explained in more detail, and
with more justification. As it is, based on the content of the paper, I am not entirely convinced
that either the model or the findings could be replicated by a different group. On a related point,
it was not clear whether model sensitivity had been tested. It should be, and the outcomes of the
sensitivity analysis referred to.
Even though it is beyond the scope of the paper, it is worth noting that this model includes one
function associated with one species within a wider reef system – and that in reality there will be
numerous other functions and species overlapping. The environmental offsets in question
therefore compensate for only one component of the system, and the reality of ensuring no net
loss would be much more complicated – for this and for various other reasons. This context
should be explained by the authors.
Finally, I think the structure of the paper needs some more work.
See my specific comments, related to these points, below.
Specific comments
(2) Ln 10: The authors say “migration”, but I think they are referring to unidirectional
movement rather than seasonal movement. Whilst it is a valid use of the word, it might not be
clear to non-specialists, so this should be explained.
(2) Ln 35: Need to be careful with language here. “The ability…to recover from a negative
shock” sounds slightly closer to Holling resilience (i.e. capacity to absorb shock), rather than the
speed of recovery (Pimm resilience), which the authors intend.
3
(2) Ln 43: Environmental offsets have been proposed for other functions by others more
recently than Wilcox & Donlan (see e.g. Bull et al 2013, Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment;
Habib et al 2013, Conservation Biology).
Further, offsets have been implemented for fauna in practice (c.f. the extensive literature on
conservation banking in the US).
I think the authors needs to outline the context for offsetting in slightly more detail.
(3) Ln 5-6: What are the impacts of oil and gas that need to be offset in this region? Perhaps
worth outlining.
(3) Ln 33-36: Provide more detail on the fractions used and the parameters in the logistic
equation, and where these data came from.
(3) Ln 46-48: It would be useful to break down and explain the separate terms in this
equation.
(3) Ln 51: Can you confirm what is meant here by the “state” i.e. what are the units of Xi?
(3) Ln 53: How sensitive are model outcomes to the parameter used? Should check
outcome of using different ecological rates e.g. the growth rate of 0.2 (sensitivity analysis).
(4) Ln 39-41: How were the points for disturbance randomly selected? Explain.
(4) Ln 47-49: How was alpha varied i.e. which of the equation parameters was tweaked? Was
it by varying the unlabelled parameter 0.01? Need to be clear.
(5) Ln 11-13: Is this not rather a trivial finding i.e. that the sub-population responded
differently to disturbance if it was inside or outside the disturbance area? If it is not trivial, the
authors should explain why.
(5) Ln 18: Similarly, is it not simply a model construct that the sub-populations which
were not connected to the disturbance area were unaffected? Again, if so, this should be made
clear i.e. it is not a result, it is a straightforward outcome of the way the model was built.
(5) Ln 54-: This information about budgets and implementing offsets belongs in the
Methods section. As it is, until now, there has been no explanation as to how environmental
offsets will be built into the model – which is the point of the paper.
Also need to explain how the budget leads to improvements in alpha and s (i.e. how does
spending money on the reef lead to increased survivorship when moving between sub-
populations?). This is mentioned later in the Conclusion section, but belongs here.
(6) Ln 28: The idea that such a disturbance would not alter the quality of remaining
connections sounds like a simplifying (but rather important) assumption. If it is an assumption,
this should be stated clearly and justified - if not, it should be backed up with citation.
(7) Ln 8: Although modelling this is perhaps beyond the scope of the paper, there are a number of
issues with offsetting which should at least be pointed to by the authors having put forward their
final result.
These include the potential need for multipliers (Moilanen et al., 2009, ref #15), issues around
restoration success (Maron et al., 2012, Biological Conservation) especially for old growth habitat
4
(Curran et al., 2014, Ecological Applications), and the choice of counterfactual scenario against
which to judge offset success in a dynamic system (Bull et al., 2014, Conservation Biology).
(7) Ln 27-29: Point (2) is an incredibly interesting finding to be able to have shown using
simulation modelling.
Review by Dr. Joseph W. Bull
Imperial College London
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
A link is provided for data accessibility, but the data itself cannot be downloaded. One has to
email a 'request data' email address.
&#10;
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper presents a framework for how to allocate funds to increase metapopulaton growth
rate (i.e., to push the metapopulation recovery timescale back to the rate it was prior to some
human-disturbance) by either spending money to increase the number of connections between
sub-populations, or the quality of connections (high quality connection has a high survival rate of
the migrants). It essentially quantifies how the same metapopulation recovery time can be
achieved from different combinations of the quantity and quality of connections, so that a
manager can look for the most cost-effective way to maintain the desired resilience. The
construction of the overall framework as a way to think about how to allocate funds and effort
into increasing the quality or quantity of connections is, I think, interesting and useful. The
framework itself is perhaps more informative than the actual results of the study. The specific
results are less informative for me because of the overly simplified assumptions. But because the
framework is useful, it provides a way for more realistic information to be incorporated so that
the specific results are actually informative. The paper is quite short and feels like a bare
minimum publishable unit. Because I found the paper interesting, I would of liked to see a more
thorough analysis of the dependencies in the model, like the effect of changing the population
growth rate [r], the magnitude of the disturbance, stochasticity in dispersal patterns, spatially
variable local population dynamics. Given variability in the these factors, I wondered if there
5
might be any guiding principles about whether trying to increase the number of connections is
generally better/worse (in terms of cost efficiency for a range of budgets) than increasing the
quality of connections. But as presented, I do not see anything fundamentally wrong about the
paper.
Minor comments:
The introduction uses a lot of jargon so that a general reader might not be able to follow. Define
exactly what is meant by ‘environmental offsets’. Why exactly might there be a trade-off between
the quantity and quality of migration connections? At this point, it is not yet clear that you mean
a trade-off in allocating funds for management, rather than an ecological trade-off. Need to
explain this. A clear example would help – e.g., what is an example of a management strategy to
increase the number of connections (create new habitat? Restore old habitat?) and why does this
necessarily mean less money for a strategy to increase the quality of connections (could new or
restored habitat also be good quality so that it also increases survival?). Are there not examples
where a management strategy to increase number of connections will also increase quality of
connections, without there being a trade-off? Why would a trade-off be common? Perhaps the
second last paragraph of the conclusions could be expanded and moved to the introduction.
The model is deterministic and has spatially uniform local dynamics (i.e., the population growth
rate [r], survival of migrants [s]), so that the metapopulation dynamics are forced to rely on the
connections, and this is why one can look at only the quantity and quality of connections. In
marine metapopulation theory, when the local dynamics are not spatially uniform (i.e., from
natural variation as well as that imposed by no-take areas vs. fished areas), then connectivity is
not the sole determinant of metapopulation growth rate when rare – it depends on how the larval
connectivity matrix interacts with the matrix of spatially varying survival, growth, and fecundity
in benthic habitats. If there is non-linearity, then increasing the survival s based on the average
across all patches will not have the same effect on the metapopulation recovery time as seen here.
Similarly, stochasticity in L_i,j will tend to reduce the metapopulation growth rate, thereby
increasing recovery time, but it is not yet clear to me if stochasticity would have the same,
proportional, effect on s and alpha in Figure 3.
Where do the parameter values of L_i,j come from?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140521)
19-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Grafton,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Environmental offsets, resilience and the cost-
effectiveness of conservation") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
6
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
7
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Two reviewers have commented on this manuscript: their comments are broadly positive, but
contain a number of suggestions for how the paper could be revised to make it a little easier to
read. I'd like to see a revision that takes these comments into account - in particular, please pay
attention to reviewer #1's suggestions about restructuring the paper to make it easier to replicate
the model that you construct.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140521)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140521.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Link to data provided
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
8
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
One of my queries concerned an assumption of the model (points 27, 28, and 29 in the response),
which I think would have an influence on some of the results (which the authors point out in
their response to point 29). My question was why a management strategy to increase, say, the
number of connections necessarily means less money for a strategy to increase the quality of
connections. I’m still a little bit unclear about how likely this assumption is, perhaps because I’m
still a little unclear on what exactly is an example of a management strategy to increase quantity
or quality (the spatial and temporal closures to fishing as examples do not make sense to me).
However, the assumptions about trade-offs are now clearly stated in the paper, so readers should
be able to understand the results and how they depend on the model structure. Perhaps other
readers can think of examples that I cannot, but it would have been nice if the paper could
provide clear examples. But this is not critical and I do not think the lack of examples is a reason
to not publish, so I’m not recommending any further changes on this point. I’m satisfied with the
responses to all of my other queries.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Joseph Bull)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Good to have the model code included as Supporting Data
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Review: Environmental offsets, resilience and the cost- effectiveness of conservation
Grafton & Little
Royal Society Open Science
In this paper, the authors use a bespoke simulation model to explore the influence of hypothetical
human activity upon the Pimm resilience of fauna species within a case study ecosystem. They
explore the use of environmental offsets, under certain budget constraints, to explore
compensation options and substitutability within the system. The case study is the Ningaloo Reef
of Western Australia.
9
General comments
As I stated in my previous review of the original version of this manuscript, the main themes of
the paper (resilience and environmental offsets) are highly timely, and to my knowledge, this is
one of the first examples in which offsets have been quantitatively shown to potentially provide
no net loss of ecosystem function. It is a very interesting concept.
I think the revisions made by the authors have substantially improved the manuscript, and I
congratulate them for that. I have some minor comments remaining to make on this version of
the paper.
Firstly, it was good to see the inclusion of a form of sensitivity analysis (Table 1), which I think
adds much to the paper. It would be useful to have more discussion (if space allows) as to the
implications of changing these parameter values in relation to budget constraints and
implementation of environmental offsets.
Secondly, whilst the revisions made by the authors certainly make it more straightforward to
replicate the results, I feel as though more justification would be useful as to the specific
parameter values taken for the model, and it would be useful to include units for the various
parameters.
Thirdly, the authors have made progress in casting this work in light of the existing literature on
offsets, although (again, if space allows) I think that this could be done in more detail. This does
not detract from the research they are presenting - it is more just that I think this would make it
more accessible to those already working in the field.
My more specific comments are as follows.
Specific comments
Ln 94-95: It is still not really explained what the impacts of industry are.
Ln 107: Why is it an “important” species? Not sure this word should be used without some kind
of justification or explanation.
Ln 119: It is still not clear how Xi is generated. The authors now state it is the “size of the sub-
population scaled to unity”. I would presume by this that they mean it is measured in numbers of
individuals, but later on Xi is referred to as a measure of biomass.
In any case, how is the overall population normalised to unity? Is it normalised against a target
population, or starting population, or some other benchmark? Or against the maximum
population in that simulation run?
Please clarify further.
Ln 121-122: If L. nebulosus is an 'important' species, why is no estimate of population
growth rate available for it, with the authors instead relying upon the growth rate of a related
species? This could be better justified.
Ln 121: Please give units where relevant (e.g. I presume population growth rate is in some unit
of ‘1/time’, but it is not clear).
Ln 129: I still do not think there is adequate justification given in the model set-up for the
parameters used. Where do the numerical values 3.4 and 3.91 in the exponential derive from?
10
Refs 12 and 14 are given, but the reader shouldn’t have to refer to completely different papers in
order to understand where key model parameters are derived.
Ln 150: Slightly confusing to refer to the alpha parameter here without explaining what it is (it is
not defined until a couple of lines later).
Ln 155: Why does alpha take a minimum value of 200? Is this derived somehow from the fact
that n = 114 sub-populations? Please explain.
Ln 160: It is still not clear to me what units all the different variables are meant to be in –
“biomass” is potentially different to “size of the sub-population” (c.f. Ln 119), but Xi is described
as both.
I know they are scaled to unity, but this doesn’t make it any more clear.
I think it would be much easier to appreciate what the authors are trying to model if they gave (at
least conceptually speaking) units for all parameters.
Ln 172: Excellent to see that a form of sensitivity analysis has now been performed. However, I
wouldn’t say that one completes a sensitivity analysis “for comparison” – rather, to establish to
what parameters the simulation model outcomes are most sensitive, such that the importance of
uncertainty in the value of those parameters can be judged.
If space allows, it would be useful to see more discussion around the implications for simulation
outcomes of varying parameter values (see existing consideration Ln 193-200), and the
uncertainties involved.
So, if possible, I would suggest devoting slightly more space to exploring the implications of the
sensitivity analysis.
Ln 196-197: Is it correct to say that a ‘small disturbance led to improved resilience’? Surely if
the size of disturbance is smaller, this simply means there is less damage for the network to
recover from (hence the faster recovery times), rather than that the resilience has actually
changed? Perhaps rephrase.
Ln 298-299: And indeed, this is often the way environmental offsets are implemented in
practice!
Ln 307-309: I do not see how the authors can necessarily ‘contend’ this point without more
discussion and justification, and do not think it really adds to the findings in the paper. I would
remove this sentence.
Ln 311-312: Can it be a ‘deterministic’ model if it involves randomly generated
disturbances? I do not think so.
Ln 323: Whilst I like the arguments outlining the use of the approach taken by the authors, I
think there could be more discussion about where this approach might NOT be useful. For
instance, as in this sentence, there is an implicit assumption throughout that ‘resilience’ is a key
goal of environmental offsetting. In general, however, it is not (the focus tends to be more on
conserving species or habitats, rather than the attributes of ecological networks). That is not to
say that I disagree with the authors about the utility of their work – more that it would be good to
have more discussion as to where this approach might be more useful.
Joseph W. Bull
Imperial College London
11
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140521.R1)
14-May-2015
Dear Dr Grafton:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140521.R1
entitled "Environmental offsets, resilience and the cost-effectiveness of conservation" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Please also check the link to your dataset, it doesn't appear to be working at present.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
12
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-May-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Please could you respond to the additional suggestions made by the original reviewers.
13
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140521.R1)
See Appendix B.
Decision Letter (RSOS-140521.R2)
08-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Grafton:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140521.R2
entitled "Environmental offsets, resilience and the cost-effectiveness of conservation" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
14
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 17-Jun-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
15
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
I'm happy with this version: just one potential typo query. The sentence at 202-204 doesn’t quite
make sense – should the ‘from’ after ‘disturbance’ be removed, or is there a word missing?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140521.R2)
The word 'from' has been deleted from the sentence, as per the comment.
Appendix A
Response to referees
Editor
1 please pay attention to reviewer #1's We have restructured much of the
suggestions about restructuring the paper manuscript and moved paragraphs around
to make it easier to replicate the model between sections.
that you construct
We have also added to the Intro and
moved some of the comments and text in
the Discussion to both the Results and
Intro as indicated below.
Lastly, we have provided Supplementary
Material in terms of data and Matlab code
to replicate the model and results.
Referee 1
2 My main comment is that the construction
of the model needs to be explained in more Equation 1 was corrected to include the
detail, and with more justification. As it is, survivorship term on arriving immigrants
based on the content of the paper, I am not ( ) as well as the departing ones in the
entirely convinced that either the model or  term.
the findings could be replicated by a
different group. We have added the Matlab code and the
data used to a Sup Mat section.
3 On a related point, it was not clear whether We added details of a sensitivity test to
model sensitivity had been tested. It should the Methods (line 172-180) and the
be, and the outcomes of the sensitivity Results (line 194 - 201) and Table 1.
analysis referred to.
4 Even though it is beyond the scope of the Text added (line 297):
paper, it is worth noting that this model
includes one function associated with one “While we showed this for a single species
species within a wider reef system – and metapopulation, there are potentially
that in reality there will be numerous other many species affected, and compensation
functions and species overlapping. The to restore Pimm resilience to other parts
environmental offsets in question therefore of the ecosystem may not respond in the
compensate for only one component of the same manner. Nevertheless, the focus on
system, and the reality of ensuring no net a single species may be warranted if it is
loss would be much more complicated – for threatened, endangered or specifically
this and for various other reasons. This protected.”
context should be explained by the authors.
5 Finally, I think the structure of the paper See #1 above.
needs some more work.
Minor comments
6 (2) Ln 10: The authors say Tried to be more definitive when first
“migration”, but I think they are referring mentioned. Changed to (line 47):
to unidirectional movement rather than
seasonal movement. Whilst it is a valid use “extinction which can be alleviated by
of the word, it might not be clear to non- non-seasonal movement or migration
specialists, so this should be explained. between local populations”
7 (2) Ln 35: Need to be careful with
language here. “The ability…to recover Agreed. Change sentence to (line 70):
from a negative shock” sounds slightly
closer to Holling resilience (i.e. capacity to “We focus on the rate at which a spatially
absorb shock), rather than the speed of distributed metapopulation recovers from
recovery (Pimm resilience), which the a negative shock by constructing a model,
authors intend. …”
8 (2) Ln 43: Environmental offsets have References added (line 78-82).
been proposed for other functions by
others more recently than Wilcox & Donlan “Environmental offsets are used to
(see e.g. Bull et al 2013, Frontiers in Ecology compensate for ecological damage at one
and the Environment; Habib et al 2013, location by protecting or repairing the
Conservation Biology). expected ecological loss at another [7].
They have been typically applied to
biodiversity inventory and habitat, but
have been proposed for different
ecological functions [8,9,10].”
9 I think the authors needs to outline the See #8 above (line 78-82)
context for offsetting in slightly more
detail. “This trade-off is then cast in terms of an
environmental offset. Environmental
offsets are used to compensate for
ecological damage at one location by
protecting or repairing the expected
ecological loss at another [7]. They are
usually applied to biodiversity inventory
and habitat, but also have been proposed
for different ecological functions [8,9,10].”
10 (3) Ln 5-6: What are the impacts of oil Text added (line 92-95):
and gas that need to be offset in this
region? Perhaps worth outlining. “ … and adjacent to large-scale oil and gas
field developments, terrestrial mining
operations and bulk shipping routes.
These activities not only increase risk to
the ecosystem from industrial activity, but
are also exacerbated by additional
pressures from human visitation and use
[11].”
11 (3) Ln 33-36: Provide more detail on the This comment appears to ask for more
fractions used and the parameters in the details on the connectivity parameters
logistic equation, and where these data Li , j . It is similar to #32 below.
came from.
“where Li , j specifies the connectivity
between sub-populations represented as
the fraction of biomass that migrates from
…”
“the expression exp(-3.4, - 3.91) “.
We have re-worded and added text and
references to provide more detail (line
126-137):
“as the fraction of biomass that migrates
from sub-population  to sub-population .
This value was calculated based on the
distance between the two sub-populations
 and , which declined exponentially
according to  ., . where , is the
distance between two populations i and j,
so that smaller fractions of biomass move
between more distantly separated sub-
populations. This relationship has been
used to calculate the connectivity matrix
with elements , on Ningaloo reef [12]
based on work from the Great Barrier Reef
[14] in the absence of spatially explicit
connectivity data based on hydrodynamic
data [17,18]. Only values of the expression
 ., . that were greater than 0.01
were used so as to constrain the size of
the network, which resulted in a network
of 3,904 links. For the purpose of this
paper, we modified the expression by
scaling it to the connection quality , so
that , =  ×  ., .. “
12 (3) Ln 46-48: It would be useful to break Added the sentence (line 122-123):
down and explain the separate terms in this
equation. “The terms in this equation represent the
biological (logistic) production, emigration,
and immigration from other sub-
populations.”
13 (3) Ln 51: Can you confirm what is Reworded (line 119):
meant here by the “state” i.e. what are the
units of Xi? “where  is the term that defines the size
of sub-population , (scaled to unity)”
14 (3) Ln 53: How sensitive are model A sensitivity analysis was performed. See
outcomes to the parameter used? Should #3 above.
check outcome of using different ecological
rates e.g. the growth rate of 0.2 (sensitivity
analysis).
15 (4) Ln 39-41: How were the points for Clarified by adding text (line 148):
disturbance randomly selected? Explain. “…point selected randomly in the spatial
domain based on a uniform random
number on the x- and y-axes.”
16 (4) Ln 47-49: How was alpha varied i.e. Good point.
which of the equation parameters was
tweaked? Was it by varying the unlabelled Text added (line 152):
parameter 0.01? Need to be clear.
“Different numbers of connections
between sub-populations, #, was
determined from random selection
(without replacement) of the 3,904 links
calculated above.”
17 (5) Ln 11-13: Is this not rather a trivial Originally that sentence was made to set
finding i.e. that the sub-population up the subsequent one. We have deleted
responded differently to disturbance if it it.
was inside or outside the disturbance area?
If it is not trivial, the authors should explain
why.
18 (5) Ln 18: Similarly, is it not simply a This paragraph is really just a laugh test to
model construct that the sub-populations show the model works as expected. We
which were not connected to the have reduced the it (line 185-190):
disturbance area were unaffected? Again, if
so, this should be made clear i.e. it is not a “Sub-populations in the disturbance area
result, it is a straightforward outcome of had a faster rate of recovery if they were
the way the model was built. connected to sub-populations outside of
the disturbance area (Figure 2). This result
is analogous to an earlier finding that
connectivity may be important in species
persistence within reserve networks [19].
This had an effect on the undisturbed sub-
populations (black dotted line, Figure 2) as
they supported the recovery of the
disturbed sub-populations.”
19 (5) Ln 54-: This information about Text added to methods section (line 165-
budgets and implementing offsets belongs 171):
in the Methods section. As it is, until now,
there has been no explanation as to how “Mean recovery time across the Monte
environmental offsets will be built into the Carlo simulations were shown graphically
model – which is the point of the paper. as a contour plot with the value of
connection quality, s, and quantity, a, on
the x- and y- axes, respectively. The
contours showed the trade-off between s
and a, while maintaining a constant
recovery time (resilience). By introducing
on the same plot the cost trade-off
between spending on connection quality
and quantity under a given budget, we
showed how investment in connection
quality s, through an increased budget,
can compensate or offset the loss in the
number of connections a.”
20 Also need to explain how the budget leads We have moved this text to line (line 219-
to improvements in alpha and s (i.e. how 220)
does spending money on the reef lead to
increased survivorship when moving “In the marine context, connectivity, ,
between sub-populations?). This is might be controlled by expenditure on
mentioned later in the Conclusion section, temporal spawning closures that protect
but belongs here. spawning aggregations from fishing
disruption [20] while the number of
connections between sub-populations, #,
could be managed through spatial closures
to fishing, particularly activities in the
inter-reef areas [21].”
The text in the conclusion has been
changed to (line 310-313):
“Arguably, the hydrodynamic complexity
may compound the difficulty of applying
our methods to a reef system. We contend
that, in terrestrial environments, the
quantity and quality of connections may
be more easily controlled and wildlife
corridors more easily established.”
21 (6) Ln 28: The idea that such a Sentence added in (line 236-237):
disturbance would not alter the quality of
remaining connections sounds like a “…Thus, an important condition of this
simplifying (but rather important) illustration is that the disturbance is highly
assumption. If it is an assumption, this localised. The least … “
should be stated clearly and justified - if
not, it should be backed up with citation.
22 (7) Ln 8: Although modelling this is
perhaps beyond the scope of the paper, Moilanen reference (line 78):
there are a number of issues with offsetting
which should at least be pointed to by the “Environmental offsets are used to
authors having put forward their final compensate for ecological damage at one
result. These include the potential need for location by protecting or repairing the
multipliers (Moilanen et al., 2009, ref #15), expected ecological loss at another [7].”
issues around restoration success (Maron
et al., 2012, Biological Conservation) Maron and Curran reference (line 301):
especially for old growth habitat (Curran et
al., 2014, Ecological Applications), and the “The application of iso-resilience curves to
choice of counterfactual scenario against decisions about offsets assumed that both
which to judge offset success in a dynamic the number and quality of connections
system (Bull et al., 2014, Conservation were subject to effective management
Biology). control [24, 25].”
Bull reference (line 286):
“Framing the trade-off between
connection quantity and quality on an iso-
resilience curve (or an indifference map)
provides a baseline of comparison for
encountering a permanent disturbance
[22], and …“
23 (7) Ln 27-29: Point (2) is an incredibly We added a sentence to emphasize this
interesting finding to be able to have (line 274).
shown using simulation modelling.
“This substitution we believe forms the
conceptual basis for environmental
offsets.”
Reviewer 2
24 The paper is quite short and feels like a See #3 above
bare minimum publishable unit. Because I
found the paper interesting, I would of We added details of a sensitivity test to
liked to see a more thorough analysis of the the Methods and the Results.
dependencies in the model, like the effect
of changing the population growth rate [r],
the magnitude of the disturbance,
stochasticity in dispersal patterns, spatially
variable local population dynamics.
25 Given variability in the these factors, I Our modelling does not generate a guiding
wondered if there might be any guiding principle in terms of the cost efficiency of
principles about whether trying to increase increasing the number or quality of
the number of connections is generally connections. In the case we modelled the
better/worse (in terms of cost efficiency for quality and quantity of connections are
a range of budgets) than increasing the shown to be convex and there is an
quality of connections. assumed fixed (but not the same) marginal
cost in increasing the number and quality
of connections. In this context, the more
that the quality (quantity) of connections
is used to substitute for the quantity
(quality) of connections the less effective
is the incremental benefit to resilience
from an increase in one of the
management control variables (quality or
quantity of connections) at the expense of
the other.
Minor comments
26 The introduction uses a lot of jargon so that As in #8 above we have added some text
a general reader might not be able to and refs (line 78-82):
follow. Define exactly what is meant by
‘environmental offsets’. “Environmental offsets are used to
compensate for ecological damage at one
location by protecting or repairing the
expected ecological loss at another [7].
They are usually applied to biodiversity
inventory and habitat, but also have been
proposed for different ecological functions
[8,9,10].”
27 Intro: Why exactly might there be a trade- We have added text to clarify (line 61-65):
off between the quantity and quality of
migration connections? “A metapopulation network saturated
with low-quality connections, for example,
might benefit from an investment in
improving the connection quality between
sub-populations, while a sparsely
connected metapopulation might benefit
more by increasing the number of
connections.”
28 Intro: At this point, it is not yet clear that There are actually 2 trade-offs, which we
you mean a trade-off in allocating funds for describe now as (line 57-67):
management, rather than an ecological
trade-off. Need to explain this. A clear “A key challenge faced by environmental
example would help – e.g., what is an and conservation agencies is how to
example of a management strategy to manage human activity and promote
increase the number of connections (create resilience and recovery from a negative
new habitat? Restore old habitat?) and why shock in a metapopulation. Such
does this necessarily mean less money for a management could involve deciding on
strategy to increase the quality of whether to invest in either the quality or
connections (could new or restored habitat quantity of connections, and in what
also be good quality so that it also increases combination, because the benefit from
survival?). each, in terms of Pimm resilience, may not
be constant. A metapopulation network
saturated with low-quality connections,
for example, might benefit from an
investment in improving the connection
quality between sub-populations, while a
sparsely connected metapopulation might
benefit more by increasing the number of
connections. At the same time, this is
complicated by budget constraints, and
the trade-off that any increased
expenditure on the number of connections
is likely to result in fewer resources for
managing the quality of connections.”
29 Intro: Are there not examples where a This is similar to #21 above which raises
management strategy to increase number the point regarding the disturbance rather
of connections will also increase quality of than the management response.
connections, without there being a trade-
off? Why would a trade-off be common?
We have outlined a trade-off with the text
(line 258-261):
“Thus, a second important condition or
assumption in this example is that the
management response affects only the
connection quality. Any interaction that
affected the number of connections would
correspondingly either result in more or
less resilience.”
30 Intro: Perhaps the second last paragraph of #20 above suggested we move this to the
the conclusions could be expanded and results section (line 70-76).
moved to the introduction.
“We focus on the rate at which a spatially
distributed metapopulation recovers from
a negative shock by constructing a model,
calibrated to an existing fish species in a
coral reef environment. We assume that
management can influence the number of
migration connections between reef sub-
populations, perhaps through spatial
closures to fishing, particularly in the inter-
reef areas, while the quality of
connections are controlled possibly
through temporal protection of spawning
events.”
31 The model is deterministic and has spatially The model is deterministic in the
uniform local dynamics (i.e., the population interannual process dynamics. There is
growth rate [r], survival of migrants [s]), so stochasticity in the location of
that the metapopulation dynamics are disturbance. We have tried to keep the
forced to rely on the connections, and this model simple to demonstrate the point. A
is why one can look at only the quantity matrix of spatially varying growth, natural
and quality of connections. In marine mortality would be much more
metapopulation theory, when the local complicated and we have developed such
dynamics are not spatially uniform (i.e., models as referenced in [14]. We have not
from natural variation as well as that however, examined stochasicity in the
imposed by no-take areas vs. fished areas), connectivity matrix L_i,j. It would be quite
then connectivity is not the sole difficult to do this analysis as such since it
determinant of metapopulation growth is would be more difficult to define
rate when rare – it depends on how the recovery when the equilibrium biomass is
larval connectivity matrix interacts with the constantly moving.
matrix of spatially varying survival, growth,
and fecundity in benthic habitats. If there is We have added some text outlining these
non-linearity, then increasing the survival s caveats (line 311-314):
based on the average across all patches will
not have the same effect on the “A simple deterministic model was
metapopulation recovery time as seen developed of a metapopulation subject to
here. Similarly, stochasticity in L_i,j will spatially random disturbances, which as
tend to reduce the metapopulation growth far as possible, included the dynamics of
rate, thereby increasing recovery time, but an actual fish population. Nevertheless,
it is not yet clear to me if stochasticity fully incorporating all the stochastic
would have the same, proportional, effect elements of the population and
on s and alpha in Figure 3. environmental disturbances remains a
challenge.”
32 Where do the parameter values of L_i,j See #11 above.
come from?
Appendix B
Blue text are additions.
Red text are deletions.
Reviewer 1
1 But this is not critical and I do not think the Nothing required.
lack of examples is a reason to not publish,
so I¹m not recommending any further
changes on this point. I¹m satisfied with the
responses to all of my other queries.
Reviewer 2
2 It would be useful to have more discussion See below #3.
(if space allows) as to the implications of
changing these parameter values in relation
to budget constraints and implementation of
environmental offsets.
3 Secondly, whilst the revisions made by the We have updated the points below (#7,
authors certainly make it more #8,#9,#10,#11,#12,#13) where the reviewer has
straightforward to replicate the results, I feel outlined their concern.
as though more justification would be useful
as to the specific parameter values taken for
the model, and it would be useful to include
units for the various parameters.
4 Thirdly, the authors have made progress in Refs added:
casting this work in light of the existing
literature on offsets, although (again, if Quétier F, Lavorel S. 2011. Assessing ecological
space allows) I think that this could be done equivalence in biodiversity offset schemes: Key
in more detail. This does not detract from issues and solutions. Biol. Cons. 144, 2991-2999.
the research they are presenting - it is more
just that I think this would make it more Kiesecker JM, Copeland H, Pocewicz A, Nibbelink N,
accessible to those already working in the McKenney B, Dahlke J, Holloran M, Stroud D. 2009. A
field. framework for implementing biodiversity offsets:
Selcting sites and determining scale. Bioscience
59,77-84.
Bekessy SA, Wintle BA, Lindenmayer DB, Mccarthy
MA, Colyvan M, Burgman MA, Possingham HP. 2010.
The biodiversity bank cannot be a lending bank.
Cons. Lett. 3, 151-158.
Burgin S. 2008. BioBanking: an environmental
scientist’s view of the role of biodiversity banking
offsets in conservation. Biol. Cons. 17, 807-816.
5 Ln 94-95: It is still not really explained
what the impacts of industry are. “These activities not only increase risk to the
ecosystem from industrial activity, but …”
Replaced with
“These activities not only increase risk to the
ecosystem from spills and pollution, but …”
6 Ln 107: Why is it an ³important² species? “important” removed.
Not sure this word should be used
without some kind of justification or
explanation.
7 Ln 119: It is still not clear how Xi is “… defines the size of sub-population…” replaced
generated. The authors now state it with “…defines the biomass of sub-population…”
is the ³size of the sub-population scaled to
unity². I would presume by this that they
mean it is measured in numbers of “… scaled to unity…” replaced with “… scaled to the
individuals, but later on Xi is referred to as a carrying capacity …”
measure of biomass.
In any case, how is the overall population
normalised to unity? Is it normalised against
a target population, or starting population,
or some other benchmark? Or against the
maximum population in that simulation run?
Please clarify further.
8 Ln 121-122: If L. nebulosus is an The term “important” was removed above.
'important' species, why is no estimate
of population growth rate available for it, “… and was set to 0.2 based on a value found for L.
with the authors instead relying upon the miniatus [16], which is closely related to L.
growth rate of a related species? This could nebulosus.”
be better justified.
also replaced with
“…because of a lack of population parameters for L.
nebulosus, was set to 0.2 based on a value found for
L. miniatus [16], a closely related species.”
9 Ln 121: Please give units where relevant
(e.g. I presume population growth “… and  is the population growth rate, which
rate is in some unit of Œ1/time¹, but it is not represents the proportional increase in the
clear). population per unit of time,…”
10 Ln 129: I still do not think there is adequate We have tried to make it more clear:
justification given in the
model set-up for the parameters used. “…according to  ., . where , is the
Where do the numerical values 3.4 and distance between two populations i and j, which was
3.91 in the exponential derive from? determined by fitting hydrodynamic data from a
portion of the Great Barrier Reef [14] in the absence
Refs 12 and 14 are given, but the reader of more extensive spatially explicit connectivity data
shouldn¹t have to refer to completely [17,18].”
different papers in order to understand
where key model parameters are derived.
11 Ln 150: Slightly confusing to refer to the “We investigated the effect of having a different
alpha parameter here without number of connections, defined by the  parameter,
explaining what it is (it is not defined until a combined with different quality of connections,
couple of lines later). defined by the  parameter, which specifies the
amount of productive capacity that is transferred in
the migration network. Different numbers of
connections between sub-populations, , was
determined from random selection (without
replacement) of the 3,904 links calculated above.”
Changed to
“Different numbers of connections between sub-
populations, , was determined from random
selection (without replacement) of the 3,904 links
calculated above. We investigated the effect of
having a different number of connections, defined
by the  parameter, combined with different quality
of connections, defined by the  parameter, which
specifies the amount of productive capacity that is
transferred in the migration network.”
12 Ln 155: Why does alpha take a minimum
value of 200? Is this derived somehow between 200 and 3,904 we replicated 10,000 Monte
from the fact that n = 114 sub-populations? Carlo simulations, so that each had a different
Please explain.
replaced with
between 200 and 3,904 we replicated 10,000 Monte
Carlo simulations (a minimum of 200 links gave each
sub-population roughly one link each), so that each
had a different
13 Ln 160: It is still not clear to me what units
all the different variables “The biomass  through … “
are meant to be in ³biomass² is potentially
different to ³size of the sub-population² (c.f. Changed to
Ln 119), but Xi is described as both.
“The biomass  (relative to carrying capacity)
I know they are scaled to unity, but this through …”
doesn¹t make it any more clear.
I think it would be much easier to appreciate
what the authors are trying to model if they
gave (at least conceptually speaking) units
for all parameters.
14 Ln 172: Excellent to see that a form of “For comparison, we conducted a sensitivity analysis
sensitivity analysis has now been on the recovery time under different model
performed. However, I wouldn¹t say that one conditions.”
completes a sensitivity analysis ³for
comparison² rather, to establish to what Replaced with
parameters the simulation model outcomes
are most sensitive, such that the importance “We conducted a sensitivity analysis to show which
of uncertainty in the value of those parameter choices and aspects of the model
parameters can be judged. represent areas influence the model response.”
Also:
If space allows, it would be useful to see The effect of different model parameterisation
more discussion around the implications for scenarios indicated that resilience (measured by a
simulation outcomes of varying parameter shorter recovery time) increased with a larger
values (see existing consideration Ln 193- population growth rate,  (Table 1). Spatial structure
200), and the uncertainties involved. in population growth rate resulted in less resilience
(slightly longer recovery times). A smaller
So, if possible, I would suggest devoting disturbance from 99% to 50% removal of sub-
slightly more space to exploring the populations affected led to improved resilience, or
implications of the sensitivity analysis. faster recovery times. Changes to the spatial effect
of migration affected resilience when the quality of
connection was high,  = 1.0, by increasing
resilience and reducing recovery time, but not when
connections were absent or poor, i.e.  = 0.0 (Table
1).
Replaced with
The effect of different model parameterisation
scenarios indicated that recovery time decreased
with a larger population growth rate,  (Table 1). The
spatial structure of the metapopulation clearly had
an effect on the ability to recover from disturbance.
Recovery times were longer when the population
growth rate was highest in the south, owing perhaps
to the higher isolation of the southern reefs. A
smaller disturbance from of 50% removal of sub-
populations rather than 99% led to faster recovery
times. Changing the spatial effect of migration
affected recovery times when the quality of
connection was high,  = 1.0, but not at all when
the quality of connections was poor or absent, i.e.
 = 0.0. Specifically, under  = 1.0 and when all
links , had the same value (1.0) irrespective of
distance, the recovery time declined to 17.1 from
25.8 time steps, as there was no penalty for
migration between reefs at the northern and
southern extremes. When sub-populations were
more localised (twice spatial effect on migration)
recovery times increased to 29.3 time steps but
were still less than if there was no connections
( = 0.0) which recovered in 33.9 time steps (Table
1).
15 Ln 196-197: Is it correct to say that a The effect of different model parameterisation
Œsmall disturbance led to improved scenarios indicated that resilience (measured by a
resilience¹? Surely if the size of disturbance shorter recovery time) increased with a larger
is smaller, this simply means there is less population growth rate,  (Table 1). Spatial structure
damage for the network to recover from in population growth rate resulted in less resilience
(hence the faster recovery times), rather (slightly longer recovery times). A smaller
than that the resilience has actually disturbance from 99% to 50% removal of sub-
changed? populations affected led to improved resilience, or
Perhaps rephrase. faster recovery times.
Replaced with
“The effect of different model parameterisation
scenarios indicated that recovery time increased
with a larger population growth rate,  (Table 1).
Spatial structure in population growth rate resulted
in slightly longer recovery times. A smaller
disturbance from 99% to 50% removal of sub-
populations affected led to faster recovery times.”
16 Ln 298-299: And indeed, this is often the While we showed this for a single species
way environmental offsets are metapopulation, there are potentially many species
implemented in practice! affected, and compensation to restore Pimm
resilience to other parts of the ecosystem may not
respond in the same manner. This is often the way
environmental offsets are implemented in practice.
Nevertheless, the focus on a single species may be
warranted if it is threatened, endangered or
specifically protected.
17 Ln 307-309: I do not see how the authors Removed.
can necessarily Œcontend¹ this
point without more discussion and
justification, and do not think it really adds
to the findings in the paper. I would remove
this sentence.
18 Ln 311-312: Can it be a Œdeterministic¹ “deterministic” removed
model if it involves randomly
generated disturbances? I do not think so.
19 Ln 323: Whilst I like the arguments outlining Last paragraph:
the use of the approach taken
by the authors, I think there could be more Our approach of framing environmental offsets on
discussion about where this approach might an indifference map between two important
NOT be useful. For instance, as in this ecological factors, such as quantity and quality of
sentence, there is an implicit assumption migration connections, offers the potential of cost
throughout that Œresilience¹ is a key goal of effective conservation decision-making, where
environmental offsetting. In general, disruption from human activities is unavoidable. By
however, it is not (the focus tends to be maximizing resilience in response to anthropogenic
more on conserving species or habitats, disturbance while accounting for a limited
rather than the attributes of ecological conservation budget, management agencies should
networks). That is not to say that I disagree be better able to opportunistically to respond to
with the authors about the utility of their natural disturbances and generate greater
work more that it would be good to have ecosystem services [27].
more discussion as to where this approach
might be more useful. Replaced with
One of the key goals in environmental offsetting is
conserving species and habitats. An offset is usually
viewed as a separate, exogenous, but equivalent,
area to one that is subject to human-mediated
disturbance. We have taken a slightly different
perspective in trying to calculate how an ecological
function can be endogenously maintained, or offset.
This was done by representing an ecological
function, namely population resilience, on an
indifference map with a choice between two
ecological factors, the quantity and quality of
migration connections, which not only affect the
ecological function, but also can be affected by
management intervention. Using this approach ‘cost’
can be valued either monetarily as we have done, or
even in terms of another currency as a ‘debit’ or
‘credit’ for conservation banking purposes [29, 30].
This could offer a potential for cost effective
conservation decision-making, where disruption
from human activities is unavoidable. By maximizing
resilience in response to anthropogenic disturbance
while accounting for a limited conservation budget,
management agencies should be better able to
opportunistically to respond to natural disturbances
and generate greater ecosystem services [31].
Society Open
