Mitigating the goldilocks effect – the effects of different
substrate models on track formation potential
Peter L. Falkingham, Julian Hage, Martin Bäker
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140225.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140225
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140225.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jesper Milàn)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a well written short paper, but I feel that it is only a small addition to Falkingham et al
2014. You use most of the conclusion to state what could be improved in your present paper.
Why not incorporate these improvements and make a paper that really present a lot of new
useful data and tools to interpret track formation. This would give the paper the wide appeal to
more general paleontologists it lacks in its present form.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Martin Lockley)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
available
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of Falkingham et al paper on Mitigating the Goldilocks effect by Martin Lockley
Mitigating the Goldilocks effect: is a very technical paper, which seems to rely heavily on the use
of the “strain hardening” concept to modify previous modeling efforts using “finite element
analysis” (FEA), “indenter mechanics” and idealized, homogeneous or other hypothetical,
synthetic substrates. The aims of this work, and previous, similar contributions by the senior
author and his colleagues (Falkingham et al., 2011a,b) seem to be to shed light, or otherwise
provoke thought, on the subject of track making by dinosaurs (and other tetrapods) on ancient
substrates.
While such scientific objectives are welcome, it is my opinion that we should remain cognizant of
the gulf that remains between studies that deal with actual tracks, as preserved in the fossil
record, and the more theoretical world in which artificial tracks made by mechanical indenters in
artificial, but physical substrates, and the hyper-theoretical realm of modeling in which the whole
simulation of track- making is done at computer terminals. While we need both theoreticians and
hands-on field researchers, I consider it important to be very careful about the inferences we
draw from comparing the two approaches. For this reason I wish to comment on the more
general aspects of “the Falkingham et al. approach” before dealing specifically with my
evaluation of this paper. In this paper, Falkingham et al., in fact invite such a broad-based
contextual evaluation by stating that this paper follows on from previous work by exploring
“more complex substrate models.”
I have looked quite closely at “the Falkingham et al., body of work” with a view to seeing what
general principles it illuminates. While it clearly deals with the thorny issues of preservation I
conclude: a) that is very often confirms what we already know from general observations, and 2)
3
it has introduced the term Goldilocks effect as a generalized synonym for “optimal preservation.”
With regard to these terms they are both very generalized and widely applicable. Thus, I am
underwhelmed by the introduction of the new term. 3) the term is not by any means new it is
borrowed from cosmology and other fields where it has been observed ( a la Anthropic principle)
that that laws of nature so are finely balanced in certain zones (Goldilocks zones) that
human/biosphere life is possible (whereas elsewhere it would not be). Given that the term has
been used in other fields it is perhaps inevitable that would infiltrate the field or the Earth
sciences. Here, it may become somewhat diluted or meaningless if we apply it to any form of
optimal fossil preservation. In this regard it appears that Falkingham et al., use the term to
describe optimal track preservation at the time of track registration, and not during subsequent
post-burial weathering, diagenesis, burial or exhumation.
In my opinion, as an empirical field person, not a theoretician, track making in natural
environments (and paleoenvironments) provide all the “complex substrates” and actual feet one
could ever hope to encounter. As a result there are an almost infinite number of tracks that have
been made by tetrapods for the last few hundred million years. Those that have been preserved
are also too numerous to count. The quality of preservation varies considerably, and the notion
that track preservation “may” be “just right” is a somewhat vague and idealized concept. There
are many categories of track preservation that may be considered just right, and depending on
the size, weight and environmental preference of the track makers in question these may
represent very different substrate conditions in different paleoenvironments. So there are many
circumstances in which the conditions may be just right for species as morphologically varied as
mice and elephants. To quote Falkingham et al. ( 2001a p.1147-1148) “
There is therefore a ‘Goldilocks’ quality to homogeneous substrates regarding possible track
formation. A faunal assemblage represented by tracks at a given tracksite will be strongly biased
towards the largest animals the substrate can support, resulting in a very low diversity of
recorded body sizes. Taxa exerting more pressure beneath their feet than the substrate can
support will avoid the area or become mired, while animals producing less pressure than is
required to create a track will not leave observable impressions.”
Here Falkingham et al. “assume” three things: 1) a homogenous substrate at a given site, which is
rarely if ever found, 2) bias in the preserved tracks as a result of assumption 1, 3) two further
biases against registration of tracks by animals too small to register tracks or so big as to avoid the
area because of the danger of getting mired. But if assumption 1 is incorrect, then the inferred
bias problems (2 and 3) may not come into play. Put another way, assuming consistent substrate
conditions is unjustified, because many sites show considerable substrate variation across small
areas, as well as multiple track-bearing levels encountered at many sites. In short the need for
uniformity in experimental studies makes it all too easy and convenient to assume similar
uniformity in nature (in order to simplify comparions). Thus, uniformity in nature would
produce a simplified or biased census of track making animals if such uniformity existed. But
such uniformity does not generally exist. An example proves this point. In huge megatracksite (or
Dinosaur Freeway) areas where dozens of separate sites exist, there is remarkable consistency in
the composition of track assemblages regardless of considerable local (site to site) differences
(non uniformity) in substrate changes. Thus evidence of bias is not to be inferred. Falkingham et
al., (2011a) acknowledge that most substrates are variable (they say polyphasic) and maintain that
the lack of small tracks is a preservational bias. This bias has been recognized for a long time. So
to show, in the lab, that small tracks are not as easily preserved as large tracks in some settings is
simply to repeat common sense observations previously made by field researchers who recognize
the different registration potential of large and small trackmakers. We know tracks preserved in
fossil dune facies are mostly all small and rather well preserved, and that large track makers were
rarely present in such environments. Moreover their preservation is shown to be ecologically-
controlled rather than as the result of optimal (Goldilocks) preservation.
In my opinion Falkingham et al., overstate, the value of experiments that demonstrate what any
competent nature or geological observer can deduce. Thus, to claim that track assemblages are
4
strongly biased against the preservation of small tracks, while possible in cases where firm
substrates are uniform over large areas, is not supportable where substrate conditions vary. In
theory the variability of substrates would capture a greater size range and reduce bias. Likewise
the suggestion that this might mean we misinterpret assemblages dominated by large tracks, by
not recognizing small tracks, can be inferred without indenter experiments. (And in either case
we could infer that the small tracks were never registered)!
Falkingham et al., (2011a, p. 1149) continue introducing the “mitigation” concept: “The
Goldilocks effect described in this study is mitigated when a substrate is exposed for a period of
time during which the mechanical properties alter, such as when a substrate is drying out.
Changes in mechanical properties will undoubtedly be the rule, rather than the exception, but the
rate at which these changes occur will determine the overall applicability of the Goldilocks effect
to the fossilized tracksite.”
This in effect says that suitable or optimal conditions of preservation change at a site Falkingham
et al., (2011a, p. 1149) also add: “the Goldilocks effect can be considered to be the base mechanic
around which other confounding factors such as limb dynamics, locomotion and substrate
thixotropy have an effect.” The implications are not clear but seem to imply that optimal track
preservation conditions are “key” or “central” physical /mechanical attributes of substrate
around which other secondary factors must be considered, or that optimal preservation is not the
result of the interaction of all animal-sediment interactions.
In a paper entitled Simulating sauropod manus only trackway formation Falkingham et al.
(2011b) begin with the premise that: “The occurrence of sauropod manus-only trackways in the
fossil record is poorly understood, limiting their potential for understanding locomotor
mechanics and behaviour.”
This statement significantly misrepresents the literature because sauropod manus-only trackways
in the fossil record are quite well understood in relation to locomotor mechanics and behaviour.
It has, since the early 1990s, been show that manus-only trackways are the results of
preservational factors, which demonstrate that they all represent walking locomotion (behaviour)
and not swimming behaviour as old theories held. Thus, there is very little that can be
represented as being poorly understood in this field. Many of the predictions arising from this
paper (Falkingham et al. 2011b) support verify what was already inferred from studies based on
direct analysis of actual tracks and trackways (and tracksites). This is helpful, but does little to
show that the simulations alter current knowledge
So we come the present manuscript on “Mitigating the Goldilocks effect”
My overall assessment is that this is a rather too specialized study to appeal to many ichnologists.
I admit to a lack of expertise in the finer details of indenter mechanics and strain hardening, and I
admit a concern about the importance of theorizing too much about a subject as complex as track
making, without more actual empirical examples. However, as suggested in the preamble above,
I have identified a number of points in the MS (my edits of PDF) which address what I consider
to be rather inflated claims about the importance of this work and the novel, big-picture
implications for ichnology that it generates. For example from the first sentence “in ichnology the
goldilocks effect describes a scenario in which a substrate must be 'just right' in order for tracks to
form” the goldilocks effect is somehow aggrandized as an identifier of something ‘special’
without which tracks don’t form. (Any comparison with the use of the goldilocks effect in other
disciplines implies a narrow, special range of occurrence). This has to be changed because tracks
form in many substrates that are not just right. They may not always be beautiful tracks, but they
may be informative tracks nevertheless. Also I read this as a rather self-serving implication: i.e.,
the goldilocks effect is now ‘standard’ or ‘accepted’ in ichnology. It was only introduced by
Falkingham et al (2011b).
5
As a non-expert it bothers be that strain hardening is not defined and that it is a field that seems
dedicated to the study of metals, not soils. Therefore the authors should define and explain why
its application here is necessary. The authors admit that there is a need to increase the realism of
their soil model. How does this come about with application of the strain hardening
concept/application to soils (not metals).
As with strain hardening, there are many other technical terms that are not defined throughout
the MS. I am fairly certain most are unfamiliar to ichnologist such as myself. I am also a little
troubled by the term “mitigating” how exactly is optimal preservation “mitigated.” Is this really
the appropriate term? I find it ambiguous and a little confusing. If I translated Goldilocks effect
into “optimal preservation conditions” which are perhaps more of a state or a condition than an
effect, and were to try and write on the subject I would come up with something more like
“towards a better understanding of optimal preservation substrates/conditions.” Does this
perhaps convey the same message?
Given the considerable literature on manus-only sauropod tracks it is interesting that the authors
consider that therer are conditions were quadrupedal Edmontosaurus would leave only manus
prints. This perhaps should be briefly discussed in relation to the actual evidence, which has yet
to report a manus only ornithopod trackway. Why? )
I have perhaps been rather intesnse in my assessment of the limitations of simulations and
modeling under narrow, idealized, homogenized substrate conditions, which fail to adequately
account for the variability of natural substrates and track maker dynamics. My reasons for doing
this are that the claims Falkingham et al., make for the utility /application of their work to
ichnology are sometimes rather overblown, because they do not acknowledge that their results
tend only to verify what we already deduced without such experiments. Ironically, in the
conclusions to this paper the authors essentially say, our previous models were not realistic, these
are slightly more so, but still not adequately so, we can do better in future!! In short the authors
are at times slightly over confident, and at other times honestly humble about the shortcomings
of their methods. This seems to confirm my view that indenter experiments produce only a few
simulated tracks, and that generalizations from these to large tracksites should be made with
caution. (Why did the sedimentologically saavy John Allen publish only two papers and then
drop the subject?)
My personal view is that this just proves that it is very difficult to simulate nature without
running into many complicating and confounding factors. (Which is why I don’t try)! Therefore, I
would like to see this general principle addressed more directly along the lines: of 1) here’s what
we might hope to do with simulations, 2) here are the inherent limitations, given the present state
of knowledge and methodology, 3) here is how some limitations might be overcome, 4) here is
where we must look to (rely on) empirical studies for results that previously addressed these
preservational issues, 5) here is where we verify previous studies or 6) obtain results that are
different or novel from those empirically derived. Etc., etc., So, in the final analysis I think the
manuscript requires considerable (at least moderate) revision, not so much to modify the
methodology and results, but to make it more readable from two perspectives: 1) to define terms
and make it more user friendly to non-specialists and ichnologists and 2) to explain the potentials
and limitations of the methodology for an improved understanding of track making. This latter
issue requires more thought and self-analysis pertaining to what was learned from previous
studies, the study’s objectives, scientific philosophy and potential for novel outcomes. I infer that
the authors are aware of the challenges in this area. If they are addressed in principle, it will
“mitigate” the risk of the charge that such work only proves what we know in a rather general
way and never /rarely produces novel results relevant to the real empirical world or animal
sediment interaction (track making).
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter
05-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Falkingham
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140225 entitled
"Mitigating the Goldilocks effect – The effects of different substrate models on track formation
potential" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below. The reviewers
and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some revisions to your
manuscript. Dr. Lockley has a number of concerns that, at the end of the day, mainly reflect
different approaches to studying trackways. We invite you to consider his points and incorporate
what you feel useful, but you do not have to respond to them individually in submitting your
revision. The other reviewer feels that you may be "shingling" your work and that a more
comprehensive paper would be more welcome here. We would be interested in your thoughts on
this, but his view will not figure strongly in our decision to publish. Because the schedule for
publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the revised version of
your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet this deadline please
let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
on behalf of the Subject Editor Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
7
label_version_2
RSOS-140225.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
label_version_3
RSOS-140225.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jesper Milán)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
n/a
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No.
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
I can accept the present manuscript for publication.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Martin Lockley)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
OK
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
8
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
I am not an anonymous reviewer as this excerpt form the editors letter to the authors (Sept 5)
demonstrates "
Dr. Lockley has a number of concerns that, at the end of the day, mainly reflect different
approaches to studying trackways."
It is my opinion that reviewers should be acknowledged.
*********
Given that the editors recognize that there are "different approaches" to the study of the field as a
whole, I am rather disappointed that so little effort was made to address how one might 'connect'
this theoretical exposition on preservation with what field ichnologists encounter. Thus the paper
is very narrow conceptually, as it appears was pointed out by another reviewer (referred to in the
aforementioned editorial letter). Since I was privy to the aforementioned letter, it is clear to me
that at least one other reviewer wanted a more comprehensive review. Such is not evident from
the revised MS. Thus, I am placed in the position of either impressing on the editors that they do
not seem interested in asking the authors to place their work in a broader context, as suggested
by at least two reviewers, or making more of a fuss about further revisions. I have taken the
former more author-friendly route. Likewise it is disappointing the authors do not seem to opt
for addressing such suggestions themselves, which could help narrow the gulf between
theoretical and empirical field studies.
Too bad, because it will just mean ichnologists in future will still need to evaluate the difference
between the Goldilocks effect, optimal preservation, elite tracks and so on to determine if there
are any meaningful differences behind the jargon.
But I don't need to say more than that or stand in the way of publishing this very slightly revised
version.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140225.R1)
We are grateful to the Editor for handling the manuscript, and to the reviewers for their
comments. We have named the reviewers in the acknowledgements, as requested by reviewer 1
(this was an oversight on our behalf, rather than deliberate). We see no other specific points to
address. Reviewer 1, Lockley, expressed a difference of opinion as to the utility of work such as
this in the broader scope of ichnology. It is not our aim to immediately have answers directly
applicable to all the complexities of track formation, but rather to build a numerical foundation
with which to understand how the interaction between the mass of the animal and the properties
of the substrate determines the possibility of track formation. In essence, we are in agreement
with Lockley that the ultimate, broader goal is to link simulations with real tracks more explicitly,
but such work is far beyond the scope of this study. If you feel we have misinterpreted the
reviews at this stage, please let us know and we will be happy to make further alterations as
necessary. Kind regards, Peter Falkingham, Julian Hage, Martin Baeker.
Dear Editor,
Many thanks for considering our manuscript worthy of publication. We appreciate the comments
from both reviewers. Below, we have documented the changes made to the manuscript following
their comments.
Reviewer 1.
We have approached the study of tracks from a different angle than Reviewer 1 considers them. We
value the comments of reviewer 1, but whilst that reviewer is correct to say that the ‘just right’
nature of substrate required for track formation (what Falkingham et al 2011 termed ‘the goldilocks
effect’) is ‘common sense’, that does not preclude it from being understood numerically, so that
studies can build upon what has gone before to create a more complete framework for considering
track formation. The reviewer’s comments that our assumptions in 2011 about homogeneity are
flawed are exactly the reason that the present manuscript was written – to address this.
Specific alterations made based on the comments of Reviewer 1:
Abstract: ‘across’ changed to ‘of’ to maintain the focus on vertical heterogeneity.
Introduction: added ‘(prior to post-formational effects such as weathering and erosion)’
Model Geometry: added ‘(that is, rotationally symmetrical)’ to explain axisymmetric
Material Properties: we have defined strain hardening as ‘Strain hardening causes the substrate to
become more difficult to deform as it is progressively deformed.’ Note that though the reviewer
feels this is common in the study of metals, it is also an important aspect of soil mechanics studies.
Results: ‘indent’ changed to ‘displace’
Some terms we have chosen not to elaborate on further. E.g. MPa and GPa are SI units and are
generally not defined. FEA terms (Eulerian, Lagrangian) are not necessarily intended for pure
ichnologists, but rather researchers familiar enough with FEA that they may wish to repeat the
experiments. References are provided, as the reviewer notes, if readers wish to look them up.
Reviewer 2
Reviewer 2 notes that this is only a small addition to the original Goldilocks paper. It is, however, an
important one that builds upon the previous work. The suggestions we make in our conclusions are
not yet entirely feasible, and would likely need to be carried out on a case-by-case basis, rather than
as a general framework. We feel that this paper, as it stands, is an important extension of previous
work in applying complex soil modes and heterogeneity.
Society Open
