Conidia of the insect pathogenic fungus, Metarhizium
anisopliae, fail to adhere to mosquito larval cuticle
Bethany P. J. Greenfield, Alex M. Lord, Ed Dudley, Tariq M. Butt
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140193.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140193
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140193.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
there do not seem to be any supporting data
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study investigated the adhesion of conidia of an insect pathogenic fungus to the host cuticle.
Differences were found between 2 species of insects (one aquatic, one terrestrial) in terms of their
cuticular hydrocarbon content, adhesion to the cuticle surface and gene expression of adhesins.
The study nicely combines different techniques. However, several details of the methods are
unclear, and some of them affect the general conclusions. The observed large difference in force
between Tenebrio and Aedes is very interesting, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. The
initial interaction may be based on van-der Waals or hydrophobic forces. If the surface
topography was the same (unfortunately, no information has been given on the surface
topography of the samples), the large difference between the two insects could be based on a
difference in hydrophilicity, as aquatic insects probably have a more wettable cuticle.
Unfortunately, cuticle wettability was not measured, and the presence of long-chain
hydrocarbons does not allow direct conclusions about wettability. Are the fungal spores mainly
hydrophobic? The paper should be revised by including information about the topography and
wettability of the specimens, and by clarifying sample sizes and statistical analysis (see below).
p.3, 29ff Is Metarhizium anisopliae known to be able to infect aquatic insects such as Aedes
larvae? Is the fungal cell wall mainly hydrophobic? p.3, 43 “Its surface structure, topography and
chemical composition can influence spore adhesion and therefore fungal pathogenicity [11,12]”
Does low adhesion prevent initial attachment or does it lead to the removal of the conidia by the
insect? Or do adhered conidia fail to germinate and develop? p.4, 67 “advances in atomic force
microscopy (AFM) have enabled the direct measurement of the adhesion forces” Is there any
evidence from previous studies that attachment forces correlate with infection rate? p.5, 86 Direct
exposure to conidia was only 20sec for beetles, but 24hours for flies – were the conidia also
present on the moist filter paper? p.6,117 Was the cuticle cut while the insect was still frozen? for
both species? p.6,117 Was the cuticle fixed while still frozen? What type of glue was used? p.7,
124 “Glue (Homebase glass glue)” What was the composition of the glue? Did the conidia survive
the glue contact? Are they not at least affected by it? p.7,129 Replace heading by "Atomic force
microscopy" What was the sample size for these experiments? Where on the insect’s body were
the tests conducted, what was the cuticle topography there? p.7,141 What was the sample size for
these experiments? What was the variability of the HC content? p.9, 179 “Adhesins (Mad1 and
Mad2) are fundamental in fungal adhesion and as a consequence pathogenicity, ” Unclear
sentence - should it read "and because of their pathogenicity"? p.9, 182 “7,195” 7195 or 7.195?
p.10, 194 “occurring at a distance of approximately 0.05 µm” How was this number calculated? a
jump-in force of 5nN in combination with the spring constant of 0.26 N/m gives a smaller
distance (19nm) p.10, 195 “if the attractive force on the probe reaches or exceeds the value of the
spring constant, in this case a force of 5 nN, nearly 20 fold greater than the measured spring
constant (0.26 nN).” This sentence is incorrect - a force cannot be 20 x larger than a spring
constant, since both have different units p.10,202 It is not clear what test was done here. If this
shows the result of a Kruskal-Wallis test, what was the sample size, i.e. on how many different
Tenebrio (Aedes) samples were the 121 (115) tests conducted? If consecutive adhesion tests on the
same samples were used for the analysis, this would result in pseudoreplication. A test for the
difference between the three substrates can only be based on measurements that are independent
of one another. The methods also don’t mention whether the same or different conidia were used
for test on several surfaces. This needs to be clarified. p.10, 207ff It is unclear whether these
observations are based on many, or on just a single sample. p.11, 222 What was the sample size
for this U-test? On how many insects from each species is it based? p.12, 238 “cuticle surface
receptors” This section of the discussion appears to confuse cell adhesion and adhesion on
cuticle. What are “cuticle surface receptors”? Fig.1 This image contains little useful information -
this is just general information about AFM. Much more useful would be an SEM image of the
tested surfaces Fig.4 Similar differences would be expected whenever insects from two different
species or environments are compared. Longer-chained hydrocarbons correlate with a better
water-proofing function of the cuticle, which is a very plausible explanation for the difference
observed here (aquatic vs. terrestrial)
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
NA
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
Review - Conidia of the insect pathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae, fail to adhere to
mosquito larval cuticle Metarhizium is a common soil borne fungus, and potent insect pathogen.
Its ability to infect insect hosts relies on conidial adhesion to the cuticle; this involves
hydrophobic interactions and subsequent consolidation of the fungal infection. The manuscript
under review describes the inability of Metarhizium to form such hydrophobic bonds with
mosquito larvae. Despite gene expression patterns indicating that Metarhizium is able to
recognize the larvae of Aedes aegypti as a potential host, it is unable to adhere to the cuticle.
Analysis of the Aedes aegypti cuticle indicated that they lack specific long chain hydrocarbons
required for fungal adherence to the insect host. This paper utilizes novel microscopy, molecular
biology, and chemical analysis in determining the efficiency of Metarhizium to adhere to
mosquito larvae, allowing for an integrative and compelling data set. Why were the Tenebrio
molitor controls infected differently than experimental samples? This does not seem to affect the
overall data as such, however, it is odd that any samples were prepared with different methods.
The manuscript describes the cuticle as lacking long chain hydrocarbons, however, the data
(Figure 4) indicates that this is not the case. It is however, lacking in three specific long chain
hydrocarbons, as compared to controls. This needs to be clarified in the manuscript to accurately
reflect the presented data (it is only briefly mentioned in the results that there are three specific
hydrocarbons missing). Are there any reasons why the mosquito larvae are lacking these three
hydrocarbons? And are there any other insects that lack these specific cuticular components?
Also, it must be further explained why the hydrophobic interactions from the three missing long
chain hydrocarbons are so critical to conidial bonding. While it is clear from the data that there is
little Metarhizium attachment to the mosquito larvae, it may be over reaching to conclude that
the lack of three specific long chain hydrocarbons is solely responsible. Have any other
entomopathogenic fungi been tested in mosquito larval infection? If this is the first time this has
been tested, it is worth noting in the manuscript. Conversely, are there any other species of larvae
that Metarhizium has been unable to adhere to? The discussion needs a more concrete concluding
paragraph. It should be explained how these results may impact the biological control of
mosquitos and what the next research steps should be. The research needs to be placed in a larger
context here. Overall the manuscript is well written and the scientific methods appropriate for the
research questions under investigation. There are some key components that must be clarified in
revised versions of the manuscript, specifically with respect to what is actually lacking in the
4
mosquito cuticle and how three long chain hydrocarbons, present in relatively low amounts, are
responsible for all conidial adherence. The discussion should be expanded to add stronger
concluding remarks designed to place this work in a larger context and to provide information on
what future steps should be taken in the biological control of mosquito larvae. Minor Comments:
Page 2, Line 17 – Misspelling of Aedes aegypti Page 3, Lines 34-38 – This sentence is unclear. Page
3, Line 42-48 – this paragraph is repetitive, could be edited further. Page 11, Lines 228-234 – This
sentence is much too long, it makes it confusing. Page 12, Line 240-241 – this sentence would
benefit from further explanation Page 12, Line 251-253 – This requires a reference.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
19-Aug-2014
Dear Miss Greenfield
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Conidia of the insect pathogenic fungus,
Metarhizium anisopliae, fail to adhere to mosquito larval cuticle") has now received comments
from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and
Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the
Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance. Please submit a copy of
your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within this time then it will be
assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional circumstances, extensions may be
possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once submitted your paper may be
returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre. When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this
to document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140193.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewer's comments
Response of authors to referees comments
Comments to Author:
Subject Editor comments:
Please pay close attention to the comments of both reviewers and provide a document
outlining how you have dealt with the issues.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
This study investigated the adhesion of conidia of an insect pathogenic fungus to the host
cuticle. Differences were found between 2 species of insects (one aquatic, one terrestrial) in
terms of their cuticular hydrocarbon content, adhesion to the cuticle surface and gene
expression of adhesins.
The study nicely combines different techniques. However, several details of the methods are
unclear, and some of them affect the general conclusions.
The observed large difference in force between Tenebrio and Aedes is very interesting, but
the underlying mechanisms are unclear. The initial interaction may be based on van-der
Waals or hydrophobic forces. If the surface topography was the same (unfortunately, no
information has been given on the surface topography of the samples), the large difference
between the two insects could be based on a difference in hydrophilicity, as aquatic insects
probably have a more wettable cuticle. Unfortunately, cuticle wettability was not measured,
and the presence of long-chain hydrocarbons does not allow direct conclusions about
wettability. Are the fungal spores mainly hydrophobic?
The paper should be revised by including information about the topography and wettability of
the specimens, and by clarifying sample sizes and statistical analysis (see below).
General comments
We thank the reviewer for their constructive feedback. We have now included a comparative
AFM scan of Aedes and Tenebrio cuticles. We did not seek to record wettability of samples
but focused on the composition of the insect cuticles to see if differences in chemistry could
account for differences noted in spore adhesion. We recognise that more work needs to be
done in this area, but it should be noted that, as far are aware, ours is the first study to provide
details of the chemical composition of the mosquito larval cuticle.
p.3, 29ff
Is Metarhizium anisopliae known to be able to infect aquatic insects such as Aedes
larvae? Is the fungal cell wall mainly hydrophobic?
1) As stated in our paper Metarhizium is pathogenic to mosquito larvae including
those of the genus Aedes. Please see P2, L60 “Recently, strains of Metarhizium
were reported to be highly pathogenic to mosquito larvae, with death following
the ingestion of conidia as opposed to adhesion and penetration of the cuticle
(Butt et al., 2013)”. – Additional references have been included to further support
this statement.
2) Aerial conidia of Metarhizium are highly hydrophobic. As stated in our paper, the
initial attachment of conidia to the cuticle of terrestrial insects is via hydrophobic
interactions. A correlation exists between the number of rodlets (composed of
hydrophobins) and hydrophobicity. Hydrophibicity increases with increasing
number of rodlets.
p.3, 43 “Its surface structure, topography and chemical composition can influence spore
adhesion and therefore fungal pathogenicity [11,12]”
Does low adhesion prevent initial attachment or does it lead to the removal of the
conidia by the insect? Or do adhered conidia fail to germinate and develop?
Insect mortality is dose-dependent. Thus insects with more conidia adhering to the insect
cuticle are likely to be killed faster than those with few conidia adhering. Conidia of
Metarhizium do not germinate at the same time; only a small percentage usually germinate
and differentiate infection structures (i.e. appressoria and penetration pegs) within the first
24hrs post-inoculation. Clearly no conidia were adhering to the surface of the Aedes larval
cuticle and no conidia were germinating inside the gut of infected insects. These
observations suggest that the larval cuticle is not providing the cues for aerial conidia to
adhere. Furthermore, no appropriate cues were perceived by conidia inside the gut lumen to
stimulate germination. In an earlier paper (Butt et al., 2013) we showed that the conidia
inside the mosquito larval gut remain viable even though they do not germinate.
p.4, 67 “advances in atomic force microscopy (AFM) have enabled the direct
measurement of the adhesion forces”
Is there any evidence from previous studies that attachment forces correlate with
infection rate?
As far as we are aware, there are no previous data showing a clear relationship between
attachment forces and infection rate. This is the first study to quantify the forces of
attachment between conidia and insect cuticles in an aquatic environment. This is a totally
novel study as acknowledged by the second referee.
p.5, 86
Direct exposure to conidia was only 20sec for beetles, but 24hours for flies – were the
conidia also present on the moist filter paper?
The larvae of both Tenebrio and Aedes were incubated for 24hr following exposure to the
same concentration of fungal conidia. Different inoculation methods were used because
mosquito larvae are aquatic and would not survive inoculation out of the water, likewise
Tenebrio larvae are terrestrial organisms, and would not survive submersion in water for
24hr. Standard, established inoculation methods were used for these insects.
p.6,117
Was the cuticle cut while the insect was still frozen? for both species?
The small size of Aedes larvae meant that intact insects could be used. However, the much
larger Tenebrio larvae had to be cut into smaller pieces to facilitate examination by AFM.
Both insects were killed by freezing before subsequently gluing them to the glass slide.
p.6,117
Was the cuticle fixed while still frozen? What type of glue was used?
To clarify this point, we have modified the text see p. 6 L 118 “The mosquito and T. molitor
cuticle were subsequently fixed, with a small amount of epoxy resin adhesive to a glass slide”
p.7, 124 “Glue (Homebase glass glue)”
What was the composition of the glue? Did the conidia survive the glue contact? Are
they not at least affected by it?
Conidia were not fully submerged in glue, the upper surface remained glue free. We
followed the methodology of other researchers (e.g. Bowen et al., 2000, 2001, 2003) who
conducted similar studies on other fungal species (e.g. Aspergillus, Saccharomyces). The
base in glass glue is n-Butyl cyanoacrylate. We do not think this additional information is
pertinent to the article and therefore left the text unchanged.
p.7,129
Replace heading by "Atomic force microscopy"
What was the sample size for these experiments?
Where on the insect’s body were the tests conducted, what was the cuticle topography
there?
Text has been changed to “Atomic force microscopy”
AFM requires working on a nanoscale so only a limited number of samples can be examined.
The difficulties are further exacerbated by the technical constraints of sampling material
underwater. In spite of this, we examined at least 5 cuticles of each insect and, to ensure we
had accounted for the heterogeneity in the cuticle, random scanning of defined regions (grid)
on different parts of the cuticle was conducted.
Representative AFM images have now been included in the supplementary section to enable
the reader to visualise the surface topography of the cuticle, along with accompanying text
“Prior to force measurements, the topography of a limited number of Aedes and Tenebrio
cuticles was investigated using an AFM image scan (Figure S2). The surface of Aedes
presented a rougher, more convoluted surface than Tenebrio, providing a greater surface area
for attachment [40,41]. Contrary to previous research [42,43], the force-curves generated
were not reflective of a rougher surface topography.”
Tests were conducted on the abdomen. Fresh text has been added to clarify the point, see p9,
L188 “The force interactions between the abdominal cuticle segments and an immobilised
spore….”
p.7,141
What was the sample size for these experiments? What was the variability of the HC
content?
Additional text was added to clarify the sample size, see p7, L 143 “Six replicates of five Ae.
aegypti or two T. molitor larvae were washed in hexane…”
We show in the paper that the hydrocarbon content was similar in the replicate insects.
However, we have included the spectra in the supplementary section as evidence of this.
p.9, 179 “Adhesins (Mad1 and Mad2) are fundamental in fungal adhesion and as a
consequence pathogenicity, ”
Unclear sentence - should it read "and because of their pathogenicity"?
Text was changed, see p9, L179 “Adhesins (Mad1 and Mad2) are fundamental in fungal
adhesion and therefore fungal pathogenicity. The genes for these components…”
p.9, 182 “7,195”
7195 or 7.195?
Comma removed. Text changed to “7195”
p.10, 194 “occurring at a distance of approximately 0.05 µm”
How was this number calculated? a jump-in force of 5nN in combination with the
spring constant of 0.26 N/m gives a smaller distance (19nm)
All data was normalised, this figure was obtained from reading directly from the force curve
(Figure 3a)
p.10, 195 “if the attractive force on the probe reaches or exceeds the value of the spring
constant, in this case a force of 5 nN, nearly 20 fold greater than the measured spring
constant (0.26 nN).”
This sentence is incorrect - a force cannot be 20 x larger than a spring constant, since
both have different units
We thank the referee for this astute observation. We had typed in the incorrect units. This
sentence has now been removed. Removal of the sentence does not alter the gist of the text.
p.10,202
It is not clear what test was done here. If this shows the result of a Kruskal-Wallis test,
what was the sample size, i.e. on how many different Tenebrio (Aedes) samples were the
121 (115) tests conducted? If consecutive adhesion tests on the same samples were used
for the analysis, this would result in pseudoreplication. A test for the difference between
the three substrates can only be based on measurements that are independent of one
another.
The methods also don’t mention whether the same or different conidia were used for
test on several surfaces. This needs to be clarified.
Fresh conidia were used in tests conducted using Tenebrio, Aedes or glass substrates.
Text has been added, see p7 L142 “Measurements were made on 121 and 115 different areas
of the cuticle of Tenebrio and Aedes, respectively. Each measurement was replicated 3 to 5
times before moving to a new location on the cuticle. Measurements were recorded across
five cuticles from Aedes and five from Tenebrio.”
Data normality within samples was checked and pooled and since the data was not normally
distributed between samples we used the Kruskal-Wallis test.
p.10, 207ff
It is unclear whether these observations are based on many, or on just a single sample.
This observation was based on several samples. N values have been added to clarify. Figure
3a is representative of data for numerous force curves generated. The legend for figure 3a has
been amended to read “representative” rather than “typical. The legend for figure 3b has not
been altered as it clearly states the data is an average of cumulative data.
p.11, 222
What was the sample size for this U-test? On how many insects from each species is it
based?
Information provided. Please see p7, L145 “Six replicates of five Ae. aegypti or two T.
molitor larvae”
p.12, 238 “cuticle surface receptors”
This section of the discussion appears to confuse cell adhesion and adhesion on cuticle.
What are “cuticle surface receptors”?
We first mentioned the putative receptors on p2, L40 “Molecular recognition through these
proteins is a key event in pathogenesis, with the initiation of infection process occurring
between fungal adhesins and specific receptors in the host cuticle (Gaboriaud & Dufrêne,
2007)”. However, for further clarification, we have amended the text on P11 line 238 to –
“The formation and strength of attachment is dependent upon the stability of molecular
interactions between the spore surface components and binding sites or receptors in the
cuticle”
Fig.1
This image contains little useful information - this is just general information about
AFM. Much more useful would be an SEM image of the tested surfaces
The purpose of the schematic diagram was to enable readers unfamiliar with AFM to
understand the basic principles at a glance. We can remove this if you wish. As stated earlier,
we have now included AFM images in the supplementary section.
Fig.4
Similar differences would be expected whenever insects from two different species or
environments are compared. Longer-chained hydrocarbons correlate with a better
water-proofing function of the cuticle, which is a very plausible explanation for the
difference observed here (aquatic vs. terrestrial)
We thank the referee for this observation. The mosquito cuticle allows for gaseous exchange
and aids the siphon in breathing (Becker et al. 2010). Thus, the structure-function of the
cuticle of aquatic mosquito larvae is expected to be radically different to that of terrestrial
insects which have to conserve water since dehydration can lead to death. As far as we are
aware, we are the first to provide details of the mosquito epicuticle chemistry.
Reviewer: 2
Metarhizium is a common soil borne fungus, and potent insect pathogen. Its ability to infect
insect hosts relies on conidial adhesion to the cuticle; this involves hydrophobic interactions
and subsequent consolidation of the fungal infection. The manuscript under review describes
the inability of Metarhizium to form such hydrophobic bonds with mosquito larvae. Despite
gene expression patterns indicating that Metarhizium is able to recognize the larvae of Aedes
aegypti as a potential host, it is unable to adhere to the cuticle. Analysis of the Aedes aegypti
cuticle indicated that they lack specific long chain hydrocarbons required for fungal
adherence to the insect host. This paper utilizes novel microscopy, molecular biology, and
chemical analysis in determining the efficiency of Metarhizium to adhere to mosquito larvae,
allowing for an integrative and compelling data set.
Why were the Tenebrio molitor controls infected differently than experimental samples? This
does not seem to affect the overall data as such, however, it is odd that any samples were
prepared with different methods.
The manuscript describes the cuticle as lacking long chain hydrocarbons, however, the data
(Figure 4) indicates that this is not the case. It is however, lacking in three specific long chain
hydrocarbons, as compared to controls. This needs to be clarified in the manuscript to
accurately reflect the presented data (it is only briefly mentioned in the results that there are
three specific hydrocarbons missing).
Are there any reasons why the mosquito larvae are lacking these three hydrocarbons? And are
there any other insects that lack these specific cuticular components? Also, it must be further
explained why the hydrophobic interactions from the three missing long chain hydrocarbons
are so critical to conidial bonding. While it is clear from the data that there is little
Metarhizium attachment to the mosquito larvae, it may be over reaching to conclude that the
lack of three specific long chain hydrocarbons is solely responsible.
Have any other entomopathogenic fungi been tested in mosquito larval infection? If this is the
first time this has been tested, it is worth noting in the manuscript. Conversely, are there any
other species of larvae that Metarhizium has been unable to adhere to?
The discussion needs a more concrete concluding paragraph. It should be explained how
these results may impact the biological control of mosquitos and what the next research steps
should be. The research needs to be placed in a larger context here.
Overall the manuscript is well written and the scientific methods appropriate for the research
questions under investigation. There are some key components that must be clarified in
revised versions of the manuscript, specifically with respect to what is actually lacking in the
mosquito cuticle and how three long chain hydrocarbons, present in relatively low amounts,
are responsible for all conidial adherence. The discussion should be expanded to add stronger
concluding remarks designed to place this work in a larger context and to provide information
on what future steps should be taken in the biological control of mosquito larvae.
General comments.
We thank the referee for the constructive feedback on our paper.
1) Why were the Tenebrio molitor controls infected differently than experimental
samples? This does not seem to affect the overall data as such, however, it is odd
that any samples were prepared with different methods.
Different inoculation methods were used because mosquito larvae are aquatic and would not
survive inoculation out of the water, likewise Tenebrio larvae are terrestrial organisms, and
would not survive submersion in water for 24hr. Standard, established inoculation methods
were used for these insects.
2) The manuscript describes the cuticle as lacking long chain hydrocarbons, however,
the data (Figure 4) indicates that this is not the case. It is however, lacking in three
specific long chain hydrocarbons, as compared to controls. This needs to be
clarified in the manuscript to accurately reflect the presented data (it is only
briefly mentioned in the results that there are three specific hydrocarbons
missing).
We have clarified this point. Please see amended text p12 L253 “no notable fungistatic
compounds within the mosquito cuticle. There was, however, an absence of three long chain
hydrocarbons”
3) Have any other entomopathogenic fungi been tested in mosquito larval infection?
If this is the first time this has been tested, it is worth noting in the manuscript.
Conversely, are there any other species of larvae that Metarhizium has been
unable to adhere to?
There are several studies showing that Metarhizium infects mosquito larvae. However, this
study is the first to examine in depth the failure of the conidia to adhere to the cuticle of the
aquatic larvae and to quantify the forces of adhesion. We have assayed different strains of
Metarhizium and in each case the conidia fail to adhere to the mosquito larval cuticle. This
study is the first to quantify the adhesion forces between conidia and insect cuticle of both
terrestrial and aquatic insects.
4) While it is clear from the data that there is little Metarhizium attachment to the
mosquito larvae, it may be over reaching to conclude that the lack of three specific
long chain hydrocarbons is solely responsible
We do not state that the hydrocarbons identified are specifically influencing adhesion
but are stating that differences in the nature of the cuticles of the Tenebrio and Aedes
may offer one explanation for differences in conidial adhesion. Clearly, more work
needs to be done in this area.
5) The discussion should be expanded to add stronger concluding remarks designed
to place this work in a larger context and to provide information on what future
steps should be taken in the biological control of mosquito larvae.
We felt the discussion was lucid and succinct, therefore, no further changes were made.
Minor Comments:
Page 2, Line 17 – Misspelling of Aedes aegypti
Spelling corrected
Page 3, Lines 34-38 – This sentence is unclear.
Text added, see p3, L34 “The fungal cell wall is critical in the infection process, and is
involved in numerous essential functions including protection, osmotic stability,
morphogenesis and cell-cell interactions, specifically host recognition and adhesion.”
Page 12, Line 251-253 – This requires a reference
No references are available; this is solely our interpretation and conclusion based on the data
we have provided.
Society Open
