Multiple behavioural, morphological and cognitive
developmental changes arise from a single alteration to
early life spatial environment, resulting in fitness
consequences for released pheasants
Mark A. Whiteside, Rufus Sage and Joah R. Madden
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160008.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160008
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160008.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Linda Keeling)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The data from this study is in a supplementary file. It is clearly presented and easy to understand
the structure.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript takes an interesting approach, combining both basic and applied science. It is
clearly written, although several details related to the experimental methodology are missing or
unclear, which makes it difficult for future researchers to use the methods or replicate the study.
My main concern, however, is the reliability of the figures on mortality in the wild, which should
be discussed.
Specific comments
Lines 85-88. Please give an indication of how much perch space there was per bird and whether it
was possible for all birds to perch at the same time.
Line 90-92. Does this mean that there were 3 sheds (rearing houses), each shed containing the 10
replicates of the same treatment. Or were the treatments balanced across the different sheds?
Line 93 How much perch space was there per bird at this later stage? Saying three perches inside
and three outside is too vague.
Line 95 What was the rearing environment of the replacement birds? Did they come from the
same treatment as they were put into? Their own early experience will influence their behavior
and possibly therefore the behavior of the experimental birds in the pen when they are
introduced as replacements, even if they were never focal birds.
Line 120 What were the rearing treatments of these 20 females and 6 males who survived the
winter and the shooting season? Later (Line 218) it says that they were 18 birds reared with
perches and 8 without, but what then is the sex distribution? Please clarify how these birds were
selected initially.
Line 126-129. Even some simple post mortem analysis of these birds would have helped
determine the cause of death. Why was this not done? Although a diseased or starving bird is
more likely to be predated, a more informed interpretation could have been made.
Line 137. Perhaps reword ‘our cold searching strategy’. This phrase may not be clear to non-
native English speakers.
Lines 153-154. How many people were measuring the tarsus thickness and was a good inter-
observer reliability for taking this measure confirmed? Please give a reference to the methodology
or explain how tarsus thickness was measured.
Line 159. Why were chicks not selected so that they were half male and half female from each
treatment or at least so that the sex ratio was the same for all treatments? Given the size
difference one might have speculated that there might be behavioral differences between the
sexes that would affect the results in the test. I am aware sex was included in the model for the
analysis.
Lines 170-172 I lack some detail for this. You say individuals deemed to have a better spatial
memory were those which make fewest errors. But if a bird doesn’t enter any arms, it has no
errors? If it enters only one arm, but it is wrong, it only has one error? You analyzed the number
of errors in the first eight choices, but how many birds didn’t make 8 choices in this 15 min.?
Were these excluded from the analysis? In figure 3, the label for the Y axis is ‘mean number of
correct choices’ while the analysis (Line 176) refers to the number of errors. This is fine if all birds
3
did make 8 choices, but not otherwise. Perhaps it is best to be consistent in the text and figure in
any case.
Line 182 I presume the birds were individually identified from the wing tags. But you tagged
them at one day old. What size of tag did you exactly use (please be more specific on line 82) or
confirm here that you could reliably read the tags with the monocular e.g. no feathers obscured
the numbers. I presume this is not as easy in practice as it sounds here.
Line 192 How were the 40 birds for the left tibia analysis selected from the 202 that were shot?
Were they chosen randomly to be representative of the shoot or chosen according to their wing
tags to be representative of the treatments?
Line 209-212. I know this result about mortality was significant in a binomial test but the total
number of birds found was only 18 out of a potential 881 birds who were reared and released.
The decreased wild mortality of birds from complex environments is the main finding in this
paper. Given the unknown fates of the other 863 birds, more discussion about the reliability of
this result is necessary.
Line 212-215. This cannot be considered ‘some support’ if there was no difference in the
proportion of birds shot reared with perches or in control. Please delete this.
Line 231. The legend to figures 2a and 2b saying black bars are for birds with access to perches
and white for birds without access to perches mean that the results are the opposite of what is
stated in the text, since the white bars are higher. I presume it is the figure caption that is
incorrect.
Line 267 Shouldn't this be ‘males’ raised in the more complex habitat were heavier and had
thicker tarsi, rather than ‘birds’? And why do the authors think there was no effect in the females.
Is it just a statistical power thing?
Lines 318-324. The authors report 5 % mortality for birds in the control treatment (line 209) and 1
% for the birds with perches. Why was the mortality in this study (even in the control treatment)
so low compared to the 65% and 81% mortality you report here? How were these estimates of
mortality made?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, and the data files are tidy and immediately clear to a reader
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
4
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I found this manuscript interesting and well written. It demonstrates clearly how a very simple
adjustment (adding elevated perches) to the rearing conditions of pheasant chicks can have
strong effects on their prospects. It is a particular merit of this work that the consequences of
rearing conditions were studied in the wild. Therefore, the results should be of immediate
interest, for instance, to anyone working on captive breeding programs with the aim of releasing
individuals in the wild.
I only have a few comments and questions:
1) Given that the natural conditions of pheasants would have perches available, it is interesting
that the authors consider the addition of perches as their ‘treatment’. In many ways, the sensory-
depriving standard commercial rearing environment should be viewed as one! I understand why
this is the way the manuscript is written, but it is something to keep in mind; the commercial
conditions have probably been overly simplified.
2) Line 145: What is the error distribution used in this analysis? Poisson? Please clarify when
using generalized models.
3) Lines 212-215: It is not clear to me how you can justify ‘some support’ for an idea when the p-
value associated with the test is 0.14. This does not seem even marginally supporting anything
unless I am misunderstanding something here.
4) Why is the Results section structured so that mortality in the wild is presented first and the
immediate effects of access to perches are presented then? Would it not be more logical to present
things in the order they naturally happened in the study?
Minor corrections
Line 32: individuals’ -> individual’s
Line 182: individual -> individually
Line 182: a IR -> an IR
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160008)
12-Feb-2016
Dear Dr Madden,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Plastic behavioural, morphological and cognitive traits
shaped by early spatial environment have fitness consequences for released pheasants") has now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-Mar-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
5
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160008
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
6
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160008)
See Appendix A.
Thank you for your comments and those of the two reviewers. We found them extremely helpful in
focussing and clarifying our manuscript, and were grateful for their enthusiasm for the paper and their
detailed comments. Below, we detail our specific responses to all points that the reviewers made and
note changes we have made to the MS.
We are pleased to resubmit this revised version and look forward to hearing of your decisions
Yours sincerely,
Joah Madden, Rufus Sage and Mark Whiteside
From Reviewer 1
1) Given that the natural conditions of pheasants would have perches available, it is interesting
that the authors consider the addition of perches as their ‘treatment’. In many ways, the
sensory-depriving standard commercial rearing environment should be viewed as one! I
understand why this is the way the manuscript is written, but it is something to keep in mind;
the commercial conditions have probably been overly simplified.
We agree with Reviewer 1 that commercial conditions are unnaturally simplified. We wanted to
concentrate on very fine scale differences in rearing environments and therefore the current
commercial rearing procedures provide a baseline control level that our manipulation improved on.
This is ethically justifiable, as we aimed to improve rearing condition. We also agree with Reviewer 1
that the sensory-depriving standard commercial rearing environment should be viewed as one
treatment and comparisons with other (improved) rearing techniques will be very useful to the field of
pheasant reintroduction biology.
2) Line 145: What is the error distribution used in this analysis? Poisson? Please clarify when
using generalized models.
We made a mistake here. Instead of a generalised linear mixed model we used a general linear mixed
model, with house as a random factor (as now reads on line (157).
We used a general linear mixed model (GLMM) to ask if the combined number of agonistic
interactions per hour differed with rearing treatment, sex and age as variables, with house as a
random factor.
3) Lines 212-215: It is not clear to me how you can justify ‘some support’ for an idea when the
p-value associated with the test is 0.14. This does not seem even marginally supporting anything
unless I am misunderstanding something here.
This is a problem raised by both reviewers. We have removed the statement ‘We found some support
for this result when we considered birds shot during the hunting season’ and only included the figures
(Line 226).
immediate effects of access to perches are presented then? Would it not be more logical to
present things in the order they naturally happened in the study?
Our rationale was that we first demonstrated the overall effect of altered rearing conditions (lower
mortality) and then went on to explore potential behavioural, morphological and cognitive
mechanisms that may underpin the effect. The alternative is that the mechanisms are presented first,
with an emergent consequence (lower mortality). An earlier version of the MS had this form and the
reviewers then asked for the current structure, so it seems to be a matter of personal taste. We now
prefer the current (consequences then mechanisms) layout, but are willing to revert if a compelling
case is put.
Line 32: individuals’ -> individual’s
Changed (line 36)
Line 182: individual -> individually
Changed (line 196)
Line 182: a IR -> an IR
Changed (line 196).
From reviewer 2
Lines 85-88. Please give an indication of how much perch space there was per bird and whether
it was possible for all birds to perch at the same time.
We forgot to inform the reader that we provided enough perching to allow all birds to perch. We
considered the minimum distance required for adult chickens (which are typically larger than
pheasants) from Appleby 2003 and ensured that we exceeded this.
It now reads (line 93),
For treatments 2 and 3, there were three perches inside the shed (total length = 2.8 m) and a further
three perches (total length = 3.6 m) in the open grass run. The current minimum welfare
recommendations for intensively reared adult chickens suggests a perching distance of 0.15 m per
bird (Appleby 2003; CEC 1999), we provided a total of 0.21 m per bird and therefore confident that
the chicks had enough room for all to perch.
Line 90-92. Does this mean that there were 3 sheds (rearing houses), each shed containing the 10
replicates of the same treatment. Or were the treatments balanced across the different sheds?
We did not make this clear in the methods. Each group of chicks were housed separately, therefore 30
houses were used in the study.
It now reads (line 81)
separately in a heated shed (1.3m x 1.3m) for the first two weeks of life.
Line 93 How much perch space was there per bird at this later stage? Saying three perches
inside and three outside is too vague.
Now quantified – see our response above and amended text in Line 93
Line 95 What was the rearing environment of the replacement birds? Did they come from the
same treatment as they were put into? Their own early experience will influence their behavior
and possibly therefore the behavior of the experimental birds in the pen when they are
introduced as replacements, even if they were never focal birds.
These birds were housed in a separate shed beside the main population in conditions analogous to the
control birds. They did not have previous access to perches and so we do not believe that they would
influence perching behaviour of other birds. We did ensure that these replacement birds were not used
in the analysis.
It now reads (line 100)
Replacement chicks were reared in conditions analogous to the control and were excluded from
subsequent analyses
Line 120 What were the rearing treatments of these 20 females and 6 males who survived the
winter and the shooting season? Later (Line 218) it says that they were 18 birds reared with
perches and 8 without, but what then is the sex distribution? Please clarify how these birds were
selected initially.
We forgot to add this to the methods section. These were all birds that we caught during an intensive
catching season using baited, walk in traps set at feeder site. This meant that we had no control over
numbers of birds caught, nor any account for trapping biases. We have now informed the reader of the
birds’ sex and their rearing treatment. It now reads (line 125).
In the breeding season, we conducted a more detailed analysis of a subset of 20 females (14 reared
with perches, six reared without perches) and six males (four reared with perches, two reared without
perches) which survived the winter and shooting season and were caught using baited, walk in traps
set at feeder sites.
Line 126-129. Even some simple post mortem analysis of these birds would have helped
determine the cause of death. Why was this not done? Although a diseased or starving bird is
more likely to be predated, a more informed interpretation could have been made.
Unfortunately, these birds were often in a state where detailed post mortem analysis was not possible.
For instance, for some birds, only wings were recovered. For others, the carcass was well decayed.
Even for fresh found birds, damage by predators or scavengers rendered post-mortems unrealistic.
Heads were removed by owls and this destroyed the trachea which is the position to find gape worm
infestation. Breasts were frequently the first target of predators and their loss meant an assessment of
body condition was impossible.
Line 137. Perhaps reword ‘our cold searching strategy’. This phrase may not be clear to non-
native English speakers.
We agree, we have changed this to make it clearer to all readers. It now reads on Line 143
If more control birds than treatment birds had been shot then we would have been suspicious that our
methods of searching for and finding carcasses that died of natural effects were unreliable.
Lines 153-154. How many people were measuring the tarsus thickness and was a good inter-
observer reliability for taking this measure confirmed? Please give a reference to the
methodology or explain how tarsus thickness was measured.
How we measured the tarsus thickness was not explained clearly. It now reads (line 166)
We recorded the mass (Slater Super Samson spring balance – precision 5g) and tarsus thickness,
described as the width of the thinnest part of the tarsometatarsus directly below the spur (e.g.
Onbasilar et al. 2008), of all birds upon release into the wild at seven weeks old.
Only two people measured the tarsus thickness. They were both explained the measure and reliably
found the same scores on test birds. Both measurers scored birds from all treatments across both
sexes. A GLM which included rearing treatment and sex revealed that the measurer did not influence
the tarsus thickness measures (F1,371 = 2.31, p = 0.13).
Line 159. Why were chicks not selected so that they were half male and half female from each
treatment or at least so that the sex ratio was the same for all treatments? Given the size
difference one might have speculated that there might be behavioral differences between the
sexes that would affect the results in the test. I am aware sex was included in the model for the
analysis.
This is a very good point but we were limited by timing. We calculated that we had enough time to
complete the training and testing of 9 replicates. In order to reduce stress to the birds we entered the
main population and caught these birds quickly. Although sexually dimorphic at the point of testing,
full colouration and therefore ease of sexing took place upon release (aged 8 weeks). Therefore the
subset we caught were not sexed until after capture and testing. As you say, we did include sex in the
model.
Lines 170-172 I lack some detail for this. You say individuals deemed to have a better spatial
memory were those which make fewest errors. But if a bird doesn’t enter any arms, it has no
errors? If it enters only one arm, but it is wrong, it only has one error? You analyzed the
number of errors in the first eight choices, but how many birds didn’t make 8 choices in this 15
min.? Were these excluded from the analysis? In figure 3, the label for the Y axis is ‘mean
number of correct choices’ while the analysis (Line 176) refers to the number of errors. This is
fine if all birds did make 8 choices, but not otherwise. Perhaps it is best to be consistent in the
text and figure in any case.
information we have returned to the raw data to check that all individuals made at least 8 choices. We
can confirm that this was the case. We have changed the paragraph to read (line 188)
Individuals deemed to have better spatial memory are those which make the fewest errors. A faultless
individual would solve the maze within eight choices. All birds tested made eight or more choices. We
used a GLM to ask if the errors made during the first eight choices differed with early access to
perches.
We also believe the text and figure should be consistent in its wording. We have made a new graph
and changed the figure legend as follows, along with amended results.
From line 596
Figure 3 The mean number of errors made in the first eight choices when presented with an eight arm
radial maze for birds reared with and without access to perches. Error bars indicate ±1SE.
From line 253
Birds reared without access to perches made more errors in their first eight choices than birds reared
with access to perches (GLM: Perches: F1,23 = 6.07, p = 0.02; Figure 3). The effect of treatment was
mistakes, behaving as if they were visiting arms purely at random (1-sample t-test x = 4, t7 = 1.00, p
= 0.35). Treatment birds made ~2 mistakes, and this differed from random visits (1-sample t-test x =
4, t18 = -6.20, p < 0.001) indicating that they had indeed ‘learned’ the problem.
Line 182 I presume the birds were individually identified from the wing tags. But you tagged
them at one day old. What size of tag did you exactly use (please be more specific on line 82) or
confirm here that you could reliably read the tags with the monocular e.g. no feathers obscured
the numbers. I presume this is not as easy in practice as it sounds here.
We did not make this clear in the method that we applied a second larger wing tag when the birds
were three weeks old which allowed us to reliably identify individuals from a long distance in the
wild.
Line 80 now reads,
Chicks were marked using individual numbered plastic patagial wing tags (18mm x 4mm Roxan Ltd)
and randomly allocated to three treatment groups, differing in their access to perches. At three weeks
all birds were fitted with a larger wing tag (30 mm x 80 mm) with numbers matching those of the
small tag. These large tags could be read by observers in the field at ~50m.
Line 192 How were the 40 birds for the left tibia analysis selected from the 202 that were shot?
Were they chosen randomly to be representative of the shoot or chosen according to their wing
tags to be representative of the treatments?
Typically shooting estates will selectively target males after Christmas. We wanted to ensure that we
collected samples of male and female tibias from birds of similar ages. We therefore chose birds shot
between the end of October and the end of November for this set of measures. We collected measures
from the vast majority of birds shot during this period. Birds were excluded if the bone was fractured,
often as a result of heavy landing after being shot.
Line 209-212. I know this result about mortality was significant in a binomial test but the total
number of birds found was only 18 out of a potential 881 birds who were reared and released.
The decreased wild mortality of birds from complex environments is the main finding in this
paper. Given the unknown fates of the other 863 birds, more discussion about the reliability of
this result is necessary.
We acknowledge that only 18 birds that died of natural causes were found, and that amongst these we
found an effect of rearing treatment. In addition to these, we also knew the fates of more than 200
further birds that were shot both on and off the estate where we worked. We reported that of the birds
shot on the estate, we found no difference in numbers between treatments. In addition, we considered
the number of birds that dispersed from estate (an additional 27 birds). We showed that the number of
birds dispersing from the estate did not differ with rearing treatment. This suggests that although we
do not know the numbers of birds leaving the release site, we are confident that dispersal was not
biased by rearing treatment and that the differences observed in mortality between the rearing
treatments were due to the factors pertaining to the treatment themselves. We have added these data
to our MS.
Line (147)
Measuring dispersal from the release site
Neighbouring estates and shoots were informed of the study and were asked to provide us with details
of birds that they shot. We used a binomial test to ask whether birds shot off the release site differed
across rearing treatments.
Line (228)
Early access to perches did not affect the number of birds dispersing from the release site and being
shot on neighbouring shoots (birds reared with perches = 15, without perches = 12: Binomial Test: p
= 0.17).
Line (344)
Dispersal from the release site did not differ with rearing treatment. Consequently, we do not believe
that our finding more control birds dead of natural causes was because those reared with perches had
simply dispersed from the study area.
Line 212-215. This cannot be considered ‘some support’ if there was no difference in the
proportion of birds shot reared with perches or in control. Please delete this.
See our response to Ref 1. We have deleted this statement (Line 226)
Line 231. The legend to figures 2a and 2b saying black bars are for birds with access to perches
and white for birds without access to perches mean that the results are the opposite of what is
stated in the text, since the white bars are higher. I presume it is the figure caption that is
incorrect.
This was our error, and we have corrected the figure caption accordingly on line 592.
Figure 2 The mass (a) and tarsus thickness (b) of birds reared with access (white bars) and without
access (black bars) to perches at seven weeks old when they were released into the wild. Error bars
indicate ±1SE.
Line 267 Shouldn't this be ‘males’ raised in the more complex habitat were heavier and had
thicker tarsi, rather than ‘birds’? And why do the authors think there was no effect in the
females. Is it just a statistical power thing?
The reviewer is correct; we only found the results in the male birds. We have corrected this in the
discussion (see line 282). We have two speculative ideas why the effect differed between sexes: First,
perhaps the sexes made differential use of perches. If so, then we might also have expected to see
further sex differences in other effects, but perhaps because of small sample sizes, this was not the
case. Unfortunately, we did not record perch use in pens. Second, perhaps there was a sex difference
in developmental trajectory. For example, males may be investing in sexual ornaments or dominance
in females who were all trying to maximise somatic growth. We have no evidence to support either
conjecture, so we prefer to omit such speculation from the MS.
Lines 318-324. The authors report 5 % mortality for birds in the control treatment (line 209)
and 1 % for the birds with perches. Why was the mortality in this study (even in the control
treatment) so low compared to the 65% and 81% mortality you report here? How were these
estimates of mortality made?
There is some confusion here between search strategies and interpretation. The studies that we cite
typically radio collared a relatively small sample of individuals (<100) and then followed the fates of
all individuals. In contrast, we tagged a much larger sample (~900), but could find only a small
sample of these birds through cold searching. Carcasses equipped with radio collars can be detected
even when buried in underground caches, or hidden in dense undergrowth. We could not afford to
radio collar such a large sample, nor could we rigorously search >4000 acres. Therefore, the two sets
of mortality should not be compared directly. Instead, the 6% of birds that we DID find should be
treated as a representative sample from which conclusions can be drawn about the effect of rearing
treatments. It now reads (Line 335)
Our observed levels of mortality (5% for control birds compared with 1% for treatment birds) were
markedly lower than those reported by other studies. This is because previous studies have typically
radio collared a relatively small sample (n = 74 in Hessler) and then followed the fates of all
individuals. In contrast, we tagged a much larger sample but could retrieve only a small sample of
these birds through unguided searching. Carcasses equipped with radio collars can be detected even
when buried in underground caches, or hidden in dense undergrowth. We could not afford to radio
collar such a large sample, nor could we rigorously search >4000 acres. Therefore, our mortality
measures should not be directly compared with other published figures based on very different
tagging and search methodologies. Instead, our unbiased retrieval methods provide a relative
comparison of mortality between the rearing treatments.
Society Open
