Bacterial bioluminescence onset and quenching: a
dynamical model for a quorum sensing- mediated property
Domenico Delle Side, Vincenzo Nassisi, Cecilia Pennetta, Pietro Alifano, Marco Di Salvo,
Adelfia Talá, Aleksei Chechkin, Flavio Seno and Antonio Trovato
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171586.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171586
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171586.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this revised manuscript the authors have substantially improved their presentation of this
work, clarifying a number of important details. The paper reads better, with better organization,
and gives a stronger rationale for the study and its significance as a biophysical model. I support
publication if the authors can address a couple of items as follows.
1. The author state that their fit result for the AI synthesis rate falls below that cited in prior
literature (refs 64, 65), but they do not state the literature values. Please as a courtesy to the
reader provide those prior estimates of the rate.
2. The authors emphasize that the quenching with short characteristic time 'is crucial to obtain a
reliable fit to the experimental data'. Consequently I wonder what evidence they find in prior
experimental studies that such a quenching mechanism exists, especially one with a time scale as
short as 32 seconds! That number raises some concerns, as it falls short of likely protein turnover
rates, and possibly also mRNA turnover rates. Do there exist either experimental studies or any
other biological rationales for this odd finding? I do not believe that single cell observations of
microbial luciferase activity (for example Nature. 2004 Jul 1;430(6995):81-5.) support such rapid
turnover.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171586)
06-Nov-2017
Dear Professor Trovato,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171586 entitled
"Bacterial bio-luminescence onset and quenching: a dynamical model for a Quorum Sensing
mediated property" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
3
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171586
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 15-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
4
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Dear authors
It is my pleasure to recommend publication after minor revision of your manuscript.
Please take the remaining points in the attached review into consideration for producing the final
version of your paper.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
5
In this revised manuscript the authors have substantially improved their presentation of this
work, clarifying a number of important details. The paper reads better, with better organization,
and gives a stronger rationale for the study and its significance as a biophysical model. I support
publication if the authors can address a couple of items as follows.
1. The author state that their fit result for the AI synthesis rate falls below that cited in prior
literature (refs 64, 65), but they do not state the literature values. Please as a courtesy to the
reader provide those prior estimates of the rate.
2. The authors emphasize that the quenching with short characteristic time 'is crucial to obtain a
reliable fit to the experimental data'. Consequently I wonder what evidence they find in prior
experimental studies that such a quenching mechanism exists, especially one with a time scale as
short as 32 seconds! That number raises some concerns, as it falls short of likely protein turnover
rates, and possibly also mRNA turnover rates. Do there exist either experimental studies or any
other biological rationales for this odd finding? I do not believe that single cell observations of
microbial luciferase activity (for example Nature. 2004 Jul 1;430(6995):81-5.) support such rapid
turnover.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171586)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171586.R1)
09-Nov-2017
Dear Professor Trovato,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Bacterial bio-luminescence onset and
quenching: a dynamical model for a Quorum Sensing mediated property" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
6
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
ppendix A
this revised manuscript the authors have substantially improved their presentation of this work,
rifying a number of important details. The paper reads better, with better organization, and gives a
onger rationale for the study and its significance as a biophysical model. I support publication if
e authors can address a couple of items as follows.
thank the referee for her/his positive evaluation.
The author state that their fit result for the AI synthesis rate falls below that cited in prior
erature (refs 64, 65), but they do not state the literature values. Please as a courtesy to the
ader provide those prior estimates of the rate.
provided the previous estimates in the main text. The revised sentence (page 9) now reads
his is somehow lower than the figure of 3-5 AI molecules produced per cell per second, generally
orted for basal SI production [64, 65], yet it would be consistent with what is known for the AI-2
nal molecule in V. harveyi [51].”
The authors emphasize that the quenching with short characteristic time 'is crucial to obtain a
iable fit to the experimental data'. Consequently I wonder what evidence they find in prior
perimental studies that such a quenching mechanism exists, especially one with a time scale as short
32 seconds! That number raises some concerns, as it falls short of likely protein turnover rates,
d possibly also mRNA turnover rates. Do there exist either experimental studies or any other
ological rationales for this odd finding? I do not believe that single cell observations of microbial
ciferase activity (for example Nature. 2004 Jul 1;430(6995):81-5.) support such rapid turnover.
We thank the referee for her/his observation. We agree with her/him that our finding of a very
rt quenching time is indeed quite surprising. In fact, we are not aware of prior experimental studies
wing the same effect. We feel this to be one of the main results of our work and we had already
phasized this to be a novel finding at different places in the manuscript. We had already commented
its possible biological rationale as well, in particular in the final paragraph of the Discussion section,
ere we refer to previous results that point to bacterial luciferase having a biological function
ferent from bio-luminescence, related to the detoxification of highly reactive oxygen species [31,32].
have now extended that paragraph to make this connection more explicit.
As a matter of fact, we agree with the referee that the quenching time is too short for bio-
inescence quenching to be explained by luciferase turnover. We had instead speculated that, in the
sence of highly reactive oxygen species in the very dry climate chamber where experiments are
ried on, luciferase enzymes are switching their functional activity from bio-luminescence to
oxification. As already stated in the manuscript, this hypothesis needs to be further tested in the
ntext of our experimental setup. However, it was nicely shown in [32] that a 'dark' mutant, where
iferase is nevertheless active, is still able to protect the growth of “Vibrio harveyi” colonies against
presence of highly reactive oxygen species, so that the detoxifying activity of luciferase in the
ence of bio-luminescence is an already established possibility.
In detail, the final paragraph in the Discussion section read, in the previous version of the
nuscript:
rom a biological perspective, it is intriguing to hypothesize that the bioluminescence quenching that
observe here could be due to the high amount of reactive oxygen species in the high drying
ironment where the experiments were carried out [30]. This behaviour could then be connected
h the physiological role suggested previously for bacterial luciferase in the protection of cells
ainst oxidative stress [32]. This had also been suggested to be at the origin of the development of
rine bioluminescence [31].”
It now reads, in the newly revised version:
rom a biological perspective, the very small value of the “quenching time” t makes a quenching
chanism based on luciferase turnover unlikely. On the other hand, it is intriguing to hypothesize that
bioluminescence quenching that we observe here could be due to a switch in the type of luciferase
ivity, driven by the high amount of reactive oxygen species in the high drying environment where the
eriments were carried out [30]. As a matter of fact, it had been previously reported that V. harveyi
iferase, but not necessarily the process of light emission, may be involved in the detoxification of
ctive oxygen species, thus playing a role in the protection of cells against oxidative stress [32]. This
e had also been suggested to be at the origin of the development of marine bioluminescence [31].”
Society Open
