Rethinking competence in marine life cycles: ontogenetic
changes in the settlement response of sand dollar larvae
exposed to turbulence
Jason Hodin, Matthew C. Ferner, Gabriel Ng, Christopher J. Lowe and Brian Gaylord
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150114.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150114
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 March 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 May 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 26 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150114.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jan Pechenik)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I believe the authors are correct in claiming that supporting data of interest are included in the
manuscript
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
File attached (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I think so.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This work makes a minor advance on a preceding study on the same topic. The analyses are done
badly, specifically the authors do not deal with experimental runs effectively -they should use
mixed models to partition run effects. The logistic regression calculation of inflection points is
particularly muddled - these results cannot be trusted at all. Instead the authors must use logistic
ANCOVA to determine whether the is any difference in slope or intercept rather than the indirect
and inappropriate approach they have used here.
I suggest the authors consider including the work of Emlet on urchin size affecting post-
metamorphic survival and I also suggest they include another paper by Swanson, showing
increased sensitivity to histamine as larvae age.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150114)
07-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Hodin,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Rethinking competence in marine life cycles:
ontogenetic changes in the settlement response of sand dollar larvae exposed to turbulence") has
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
3
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
4
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Kevin Padian
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
The expert reviewers have provided several recommendations for revisions that should be made
to the manuscript. Principally these include an alternative way to perform the statistical analyses,
inclusion of a wider consideration of some relevant literature, clarification of some definitions
and clarification of some aspects of the experimental design (particularly with regards to a
turbulence control).
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
File attached.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This work makes a minor advance on a preceding study on the same topic. The analyses are done
badly, specifically the authors do not deal with experimental runs effectively -they should use
mixed models to partition run effects. The logistic regression calculation of inflection points is
particularly muddled - these results cannot be trusted at all. Instead the authors must use logistic
ANCOVA to determine whether the is any difference in slope or intercept rather than the indirect
and inappropriate approach they have used here.
I suggest the authors consider including the work of Emlet on urchin size affecting post-
metamorphic survival and I also suggest they include another paper by Swanson, showing
increased sensitivity to histamine as larvae age.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150114)
See Appendix B.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-150114.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jan Pechenik)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Fine
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have followed most of my suggestions and the manuscript is now much clearer.
They might want to avoid overgeneralizing in places (first sentence of Discussion, for example).
It still appears to me that there is a certain degree of differentiation that must occur before these
larvae can be induced to settle/metamorphose--in this case the larvae gradually become
responsive to turbulence cues, which accelerates their becoming responsive to chemical cues--and
so these data still seem consistent with the general idea that the onset of competence is somehow
"pre-programmed" into development. But now we have a new problem to deal with: what makes
these larvae suddenly responsive to turbulence? Interesting stuff.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Don't know
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
6
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The manuscript has been modified adequately.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150114.R1)
26-May-2015
Dear Dr Hodin,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Rethinking competence in marine life
cycles: ontogenetic changes in the settlement response of sand dollar larvae exposed to
turbulence" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
ppendix A
iew of Hodin—RoySocOpenSci March 2015
was an interesting and well-written paper. The findings seem novel, although perhaps not creating
e the revolution in our thinking about competence as the authors suggest. What the work adds is
interesting idea that larvae can become competent to respond not just to ambient chemical cues,
to physical cues as well, and that once competent to respond to them, the physical cues can
elerate responsiveness to chemical cues. Indeed, their data support that idea very nicely. In Figure
or example, we see young larvae becoming more and more responsive to the effects of turbulence as
y age. But the larvae are still metamorphosing in response to chemical cues, not to turbulence; it
ms to me that the onset of competence to respond to chemical cues has been speeded up by
osure to a short period (only 3 minutes!) of turbulence. Similarly, a number of previous studies have
wn that larvae become more responsive to chemical cues as they age.
ere is the way I see the story here. In the absence of turbulence the larvae eventually become
ponsive to certain chemical cues. But turbulence can speed up that process, so that larvae become
ponsive (“competent to metamorphose”) to the chemical cues earlier. So in the absence of
ulence larvae will disperse farther and be more developed at metamorphosis, while in the presence
urbulence—if they are far enough along in development--they will disperse less and metamorphose
ner if the right chemical cues are present. If metamorphosis is under inhibitory control, as a number
tudies suggest for a number of marine species, then turbulence may simply be shutting down the
bition faster.
authors should define exactly what they mean by the terms competence, pre-competence,
lement, and metamorphosis. They describe “settlement” on pages 11 and 12 as the withdrawal of
helial tissue from the tips of the larval arms. But isn’t this the start of “metamorphosis”? I suppose
y could define “settlement” as the initiation of metamorphosis, but why not just talk about
amorphosis? To me, “settlement” just means that the larvae have stopped swimming and settled
he bottom of the container. Larvae will “settle” if you add formalin to the water! Moreover,
tlement” is reversible, while “metamorphosis” is not in these organisms, and that is an important
inction. I say more about the terms competence and pre-competence below.
the authors include a treatment in which the larvae were exposed only to the turbulence without
ng subsequently exposed to natural or artificial inducer? I didn’t see that, but it seems like an
ortant control to include. It’s important to establish that the larvae are not metamorphosing in
ponse to turbulence directly. The only controls I saw described were exposing larvae to cues directly
he absence of turbulence (p 10, line 42-43), and putting larvae in the turbulence machine for 3
utes without turning it on (p 10, lines 50-53). I would like to see some assurance that turbulence
ne does not stimulate metamorphosis.
e 5 bottom (H1). “Increased responsiveness to turbulence” might be a little misleading, since it
ms that the larvae are not metamorphosing in response to turbulence. Rather, turbulence is
eding up the onset of metamorphic competence. On p 12 (lines 28-34), were none of these larvae
aside for documenting the effects of turbulence alone? That seems an essential part of the
eriment. Also, do we know that the turbulence itself is not causing physical damage to the larvae?
t is also important to know, and should be made clear.
e 6, Line 54. Give a reference for “our prior work”.
e 17, lines 13-23. Is it really “increased responsiveness to turbulence exposure,” or rather a speeding
of the onset of competence (i.e., responsiveness) to chemical cues?
1 top paragr. This just repeats material from the Introduction.
1 middle paragr. Discuss the ecological implications of this batch variability, particularly in terms of
ersal consequences.
2, lines 30-45. Do larvae “have the ability to adjust their turbulence responses during ontogeny,” or
s turbulence just set something else in motion (competence to respond to chemical cues), once the
ae become responsive to turbulence?
3 top. If the larvae metamorphosed in response to inducer after being exposed to turbulence, then
larvae were not “precompetent.” They were precompetent before the turbulence exposure, but
n apparently became competent to respond to chemical cues (at a smaller size) through the
ulent experience. And they were “competent” to respond to the turbulence. This is an important
nt. Figure 6 shows that only about 20% of turbulence-treated larvae responded to chemical inducers,
ch presumably means that 80% of the larvae were not yet competent to respond to the turbulence
ecoming competent to respond to the chemical cues.
clusions (p 27). I don’t see how this research clarifies “a mechanistic understanding of what it
ans for larvae to be competent.” Lines 1-56: “precompetent larvae” OF A CERTAIN AGE; the larvae
e not competent to respond to chemical cues before they experience turbulence, but they were
petent to respond to the turbulence (by becoming competent to respond to chemical cues). This
s back to the importance of defining precisely what is meant by competence. As a number of
hors (e.g., Pechenik and Gee) have pointed out previously, it’s important to define competence with
pect to the particular cue of interest, since larvae apparently become competent to respond to
erent cues at different ages. So here in this paper we have two cues really, one physical and one
mical; it’s just that the larvae don’t metamorphose in response to the physical cue, but instead
ome capable of metamorphosing in response to the chemical cue.
re 3. Are all larvae from a single culture? That should be made clear.
d a lot of trouble reading Figure 4, in particular figuring out what the different symbols represented.
endix B
NSE TO REVIEWERS, "RETHINKING COMPETENCE IN MARINE LIFE CYCLES:
GENETIC CHANGES IN THE SETTLEMENT RESPONSE OF SAND DOLLAR LARVAE
SED TO TURBULENCE" BY HODIN ET AL., RSOS-150114
Associate Editor's comments:
The expert reviewers have provided several recommendations for revisions that should be made
to the manuscript. Principally these include an alternative way to perform the statistical analyses,
inclusion of a wider consideration of some relevant literature, clarifcation of some defnitions
and clarifcation of some aspects of the experimental design (particularly with regards to a
turbulence control).
preciate the opportunity to respond to the reviewers' comments, and we concur with Dr.
that these are the main points that the reviewers focused on in their comments and
stions. We reply to each of these points in the course of our replies to the comments of
ers 1 and 2, below.
Reviewer 1's comments:
Introductory comments
ank the reviewer for the kind words and the very detailed and constructive review that (s)he
ed. We do not repeat the entire text of the reviewer's comments below, but instead list the
where the reviewer has specifcally asked for a clarifcation or a change to the manuscript, or
ise has written something that we felt necessitated a reply.
nd line numbers below refer to those in the revised version of the manuscript. Indented
ed text are quotes from the reviewer's comments, followed by our replies in unindented, non-
ed text.
...a number of previous studies have shown that larvae become more responsive to chemical cues
as they age.
d we agree that these previous studies are directly relevant to our fndings. We discuss these
in the discussion starting on Page 24 Line 596 and on Page 27 Line 651 and provide several
nt references to this literature (refs. 62-65 in our reference list). We also have here added an
onal reference (ref. 42) on this topic by Swanson and colleagues at the urging of Reviewer #2
elow).
So here is the way I see the story here. In the absence of turbulence the larvae eventually become
responsive to certain chemical cues. But turbulence can speed up that process, so that larvae
become responsive (“competent to metamorphose”) to the chemical cues earlier. So in the
absence of turbulence larvae will disperse farther and be more developed at metamorphosis,
while in the presence of turbulence—if they are far enough along in development--they will
disperse less and metamorphose sooner if the right chemical cues are present.
ank the reviewer for this succinct and accurate summary, which comports well with the way
e frame and discuss our experiments in the sections starting on Page 4 Line 98, Page 21 Line
d Page 24 Line 581. We discuss the issue of inhibition starting on on Page 26 Line 645.
, we respond directly to the issue of “metamorphosis” per sé and defnitions thereof.
The authors should defne exactly what they mean by the terms competence, pre-competence,
settlement, and metamorphosis. They describe “settlement” on pages 11 and 12 as the
withdrawal of epithelial tissue from the tips of the larval arms. But isn’t this the start of
“metamorphosis”? I suppose they could defne “settlement” as the initiation of metamorphosis,
but why not just talk about metamorphosis? To me, “settlement” just means that the larvae have
stopped swimming and settled to the bottom of the container. Larvae will “settle” if you add
formalin to the water! Moreover, “settlement” is reversible, while “metamorphosis” is not in these
organisms, and that is an important distinction. I say more about the terms competence and pre-
competence below.
ree with the reviewer that these terms should be more precisely defned. We have now added
on to the Methods (see paragraph starting on Page 7 Line 159) where we ofer precise
ions of the four terms listed above.
issue of metamorphosis, the defnition of that term is not anywhere near universally agreed
as the paper by Bishop et al. 2006 (“What is Metamorphosis?” ICB 46: 655) –with its more than
n diferent defnitions by as many authors– clearly demonstrates. One of us (Hodin) is a co-
on this paper. Hodin also has provided a more complete analysis of metamorphosis in
al and in sea urchins specifcally in a single-authored 2006 paper, which we have now also
n this context in the manuscript (see new Ref. 25).
te that while defning, as we do, metamorphosis in sea urchins as a longer term process
ning with the frst formation of juvenile structures) –and settlement as a stage of
orphosis– is somewhat unorthodox, it does have precedent in the literature. We point
cally to the similar defnitions of these terms (emphasis added) by the eminent invertebrate
rval biologist Fu Shiang Chia in his own article (pages 283-5) within his co-edited 1978 classic
e Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine Invertebrate Larvae:
ement, including attachment in some cases, refers to general behavioral and habitat changes,
as metamorphosis denotes morphological and physiological changes. Settlement and
orphosis usually occur in a relatively short period of time and neither is reversible.
nvertebrate larvae settle frst and then metamorphose, others metamorphose frst and then
and in others the two processes take place simultaneously.”
uld only note that there are some rare examples where settlement is reversible (e.g., see
l et al. 2006, ICB 46: 827), but in broad terms we agree with Chia here, and, thus, respectfully
ee with the reviewer that formalin treated larvae are properly “settled” when they fall to the
m of the dish. Furthermore, we consider sea urchin larvae an example of those that
morphose frst and then settle” (see also Hodin 2006; new ref 25).
fculty in providing defnitions for precompetence and competence is that we feel that our
suggest a rethinking of these terms, and we discuss this at some length on Pages 24-27.
ore, what we have done is to outline what we consider the general consensus view of these
for the purposes of the bulk of the manuscript (now specifcally defned starting on Page 7
66) , and then ofer our own defnitions in the aforementioned Discussion section towards the
Did the authors include a treatment in which the larvae were exposed only to the turbulence
without being subsequently exposed to natural or artifcial inducer? I didn’t see that, but it seems
like an important control to include.
ank the reviewer for noticing this oversight. Yes, we have indeed confrmed that turbulence
does not induce settlement in sand dollar larvae. As we have already published such data for
sea urchins (see Ref. 16), we have now decided to add a note to this efect, and cite the
cal control result for sand dollar larvae that the author seeks as “data not shown” (see Page 16
92). We hope that this will sufce.
Page 5 bottom (H1). “Increased responsiveness to turbulence” might be a little misleading, since it
seems that the larvae are not metamorphosing in response to turbulence. Rather, turbulence is
speeding up the onset of metamorphic competence.
Page 17, lines 13-23. Is it really “increased responsiveness to turbulence exposure,” or rather a
speeding up of the onset of competence (i.e., responsiveness) to chemical cues?
ain thank the reviewer for noticing this point which might indeed have aroused confusion in
s. We have now gone through the manuscript carefully and ensured that in each place that
ntioned this wording for H1, we made clear that turbulence is promoting competence, rather
ettlement per sé. See, for example, our revised wording on Page 5 Lines 114 and 123, Page 14
32, 336 and 340, and Page 17 Line 415.
Page 6, Line 54. Give a reference for “our prior work”.
now Page 6 Line 147) – ref. 16.
P 21 top paragr. This just repeats material from the Introduction.
line paragraph (which now begins on Page 21 Line 516) is indeed a summary of a much
section in the intro (see Section 2.3 Pages 5-6), but we felt it important to remind the readers
0, H1 and H2 entail in order to make the manuscript easier to read. Therefore, we would like
in this paragraph as is.
P 21 middle paragr. Discuss the ecological implications of this batch variability, particularly in
terms of dispersal consequences.
lcome this suggestion, and provide a very brief discussion of this point on Page 22 beginning
e 532.
P 22, lines 30-45. Do larvae “have the ability to adjust their turbulence responses during
ontogeny,” or does turbulence just set something else in motion (competence to respond to
chemical cues), once the larvae become responsive to turbulence?
ld that the fnding that responses change across ontogeny is an example of developmental
typic plasticity, which can be defned as an adjustment of responses across ontogeny as a
of environmental exposure. Therefore we would like to retain this wording, though we now
e a brief additional justifcation for it in the text (see Page 23 Line 562).
P 23 top. If the larvae metamorphosed in response to inducer after being exposed to turbulence,
then the larvae were not “precompetent.” They were precompetent before the turbulence
exposure, but then apparently became competent to respond to chemical cues (at a smaller size)
through the turbulent experience. And they were “competent” to respond to the turbulence. This
is an important point.
ank the reviewer for identifying our confusing wording here, which we have now rectifed (see
3 Line 574 – Page 24 Line 576). In our revised wording, we indicate that the younger larvae
recompetent before exposure to turbulence, whereas the older larvae tested had become
etent in the absence of turbulence exposure. Furthermore, we looked carefully through the
manuscript with this comment in mind to ensure that we avoided any such confusion
hout.
Conclusions (p 27). I don’t see how this research clarifes “a mechanistic understanding of what it
means for larvae to be competent.”
ree that our experiments do not fully clarify this issue, but we also note that we do not make
claim for our study. We believe that the new defnitions we provide (Pages 26-27) ofer a
accurate and clear (and testable) conception of competence, which we believe will pave the
r a clearer mechanistic understanding of competence, an understanding that we feel has
mpeded by a somewhat limited (and overly operational) defnition of competence in the
ure to date.
Lines 1-56: “precompetent larvae” OF A CERTAIN AGE; the larvae were not competent to respond
to chemical cues before they experience turbulence, but they were competent to respond to the
turbulence (by becoming competent to respond to chemical cues). This gets back to the
importance of defning precisely what is meant by competence.
preciate the reviewer's perspective here, but we feel that it would be far too confusing to use
m “competence” to refer both to the ability to settle AND to the ability to respond to
ence to become competent to settle! This is why we advocate a more precise defnition of
mpetence” as this latter stage: namely, the stage when larvae are able to respond to
ence and become competent (see paragraph beginning on Page 26 Line 644).
uld also like to point out that although -in our study- the broader habitat scale cue is physical
lence) and the settlement cue itself is chemical (KCl or sand extract), there are also examples
lized settlement cues being physical in nature (light, surface roughness, sound, etc.) and even
ps of the broader, habitat scale cues being chemical (see Ref. 86).
Figure 3. Are all larvae from a single culture? That should be made clear.
l larvae in this experiment are from a single culture (batch), and we have now clarifed this in
end to Figure 3.
I had a lot of trouble reading Figure 4, in particular fguring out what the diferent symbols
represented.
ologize for the confusion here and have now provided a revised Figure 4 which we hope will
ier to interpret. We have adjusted the size of the circle symbols in all panels, and made the
d lines/solid lines consistent across panels.
Reviewer 2's comments:
nd line numbers below refer to those in the revised version of the manuscript. Indented
ed text are quotes from the reviewer's comments, followed by our replies in unindented, non-
ed text.
the authors do not deal with experimental runs efectively -they should use mixed models to
partition run efects.
viewer is correct that in the analyses of the data shown in Figure 4 we did not run a mixed
(with batch and runs nested within batch as random efects), and we have now done so in
ta shown in Figure 5 and the new Figure 6. With respect to Figure 4 itself, we have decided to
ur analysis to the specifc tests of H1 (Figure 5) and H2 (Figure 6), since those are the issues of
st in our data set, and not attempt any additional analyses of the data in Figure 4 per sé.
rmore, to avoid confusion (and because these data are now shown more clearly and
tely in the new Figure 6; see below), we removed panel D in Figure 4 as originally submitted.
espect to H1, we have now run a mixed model on the regression analysis (as described in the
ds on Page 13 Lines 331-345) and report the results in section 4.2.1 (starting on Page 17 Line
nd Figure 5. The new analysis did not qualitatively efect our conclusions here.
espect to H2, to address the reviewer's concerns, we have decided to completely re-do this
is of infection points using a generalized linear mixed model. As a result, we have removed
were previously Table 1 and the Supplemental fgure, and replaced them with a new Figure 6.
st eforts in the re-analysis of the data to test hypothesis H2 (now Figure 6) involved trying to
e best-supported model among a series of possible parameters. We employed a “forward
on” methodology here, adding parameters (including the random efects listed above) and
ng the Akaike information criterion (AIC) score each time to fnd the model with lowest score,
nce the best-ft to the data (Akaike 1978, now referenced in our manuscript as Ref. 31). We
e our model selection process and the various AIC scores of the models that we tested in the
ds on Page 15 Line 347 – Page 16 Line 356.
sulting best-supported model was a logistic model with random efects, as well as a quadratic
or turbulence intensity to approximate the drop of in settlement that we see at high
ence intensities (see Figures 4 and 6), and which substantially improved the AIC score (465.7
he quadratic term versus 481.8 without). Adding in interaction terms did not improve AIC
, so we left them out of the fnal model. All of this is now outlined in the Methods as noted
.
this best-supported model, we generated best-ft curves for day 9 and day 11 across our
of tested turbulence intensities, along with 95% confdence interval (CI) curves surrounding
st-ft curves. We then ran a non-parametric bootstrap analysis for 10,000 iterations (with the
m efects included), resulting in 10,000 infection point estimates for day 9 and day 11. We
hese data to estimate infection points with 95% CI for our day 9 and day 11 data, and
ted the P value based on the maximum range (% CI) of non-overlapping infection point
tes (see our revised Methods, Page 15 Lines 362-368). The outcome of this more thorough
is (when compared to our previously submitted version of the manuscript) is a result that is
tively similar to what we previously reported: borderline support for H2.
scribe this new analysis in section 4.2.2 of the Results (beginning on Page 17 Line 421), in the
sion (Page 22 Lines 527-550) and in the legend to the new Figure 6, where we present the
of this new analysis.
te that the data shown in Figure 3 and what are now Figures 7 and 8 (formerly Figures 6 and
ectively) were all done on a single batch (with replication) and so mixed models would not be
priate for these data.
note above, in the revised manuscript, we no longer report any analyses on the data shown in
4 per sé, which we feel has been superseded by our now more complete analyses on the
hown in Figures 5 and 6.
The logistic regression calculation of infection points is particularly muddled - these results
cannot be trusted at all. Instead the authors must use logistic ANCOVA to determine whether the
is any diference in slope or intercept rather than the indirect and inappropriate approach they
have used here.
ree with the reviewer's comment here and apologize for the confusing nature of our previous
is. As detailed above, we have addressed this concern by completely re-working our analysis
shown now in Figure 6 and described in the text.
I suggest the authors consider including the work of Emlet on urchin size afecting post-
metamorphic survival and I also suggest they include another paper by Swanson, showing
increased sensitivity to histamine as larvae age.
ank the reviewer for this suggestion and have added the suggested additional references as
nce numbers 42 and 58-59, cited now on pages 20, 23 and 24.
Society Open
