Modelling the species jump: towards assessing the risk of
human infection from novel avian influenzas
A. A. Hill, T. Dewé, R. Kosmider, S. Von Dobschuetz, O. Munoz, A. Hanna, A. Fusaro,
M. De Nardi, W. Howard, K. Stevens, L. Kelly, A. Havelaar and K. Stärk
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150173.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150173
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 July 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 August 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150173.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The revised manuscript addresses many of my previous concerns. The stated goals of creating a
model of specific avian influenza spillovers into humans is reasonable as described as modeled.
However, some issues still remain (and which created confusion the first time around), including
the extensive discussion in various places (Abstract, Introduction, elsewhere) about influenza
emergence in epidemics and pandemics - which is at odds with the specific goals of this study
and model presented to look at two viruses in poultry which can infect humans in spillovers, but
which show little onward transmission.
As such further revision of the text is needed to keep the focus on the specific objectives of this
studies; and clarify that any connections to further spread and epidemics are uncertain and
explicitly not part of the model being presented here. Other statements create confusion - e.g.
"aims to address the problem of identifying which influenza strains are more likely to jump the
species barrier...a prerequisite for a pandemic." I am not sure where this is being addressed here
around the two virus strains being examined, and a rewording and focusing is needed to clarify
what is being done compared to the grand synthesis that is necessary to predict pandemic
emergence, which is not being done here.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have revised the manuscript according to the reviewers concerns. I feel the proof of
concept would be stronger if the authors considered risk of transmission from ducks as well as
chickens to humans. I also feel the authors could provide an example of another avian influenza
virus (e.g., H5N2 in the US) as an example of the potential utility of the model they developed.
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I appreciate the scale of the problem the authors have undertaken and their goal of providing a
decision-making tool in risk assessment. I also think the authors did a fine job of addressing
comments by previous reviewers. I think the framework does a fine job of capturing all the
fundamental aspects of spillover risk but I am uncomfortable with the simplicity (although I
understand the need to start somewhere). My concerns are:
1) I would like to see a description of how FAO generates chicken population density data. I
would be surprised if they can capture many if even some backyard poultry operations.
2) I am uncomfortable with the idea with densities being a proxy for contact intensity. In fact, in
some areas large commercial operations, which would be “high density poultry zones” have very
little contact with humans due to high biosecurity, whereas small backyard operations may have
a lot more and barely be registered in the dataset. This show be discussed.
3) Is there a typo in equation 2? I would assume it should be 1-e^-x not 1-e^x unless I’m missing
something.
4) Why use the word poultry when you are talking about chickens? As mentioned by a previous
reviewer, ducks are important (and widespread) and I think it’s important for the reader to
remember that you are only talking about risk from chickens.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150173)
16-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Hill,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Modelling the species jump: assessing the risk of
zoonotic influenza infection") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
4
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 09-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
5
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150173)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150173.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
6
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This revised manuscript addresses the main issues that were of concern to me previously, and
provides a useful model for understanding the human exposures that result from influenza
viruses in chickens in various places. While the connections to human outbreaks are unclear, a
better understanding these exposure routes is of interest.
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors did a nice job addressing reviewer comments. The manuscript is clearer. The last
sentence of the first paragraph of the Discussion is either incomplete or has a few words that
need deleting on the end.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150173.R1)
12-Aug-2015
Dear Dr Hill,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Modelling the species jump: towards
assessing the risk of zoonotic influenza infection" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
Please make your R code available as supplementary information during the proofing stage.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
7
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This revised manuscript addresses the main issues that were of concern to me previously, and
provides a useful model for understanding the human exposures that result from influenza
viruses in chickens in various places. While the connections to human outbreaks are unclear, a
better understanding these exposure routes is of interest.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors did a nice job addressing reviewer comments. The manuscript is clearer. The last
sentence of the first paragraph of the Discussion is either incomplete or has a few words that
need deleting on the end.
Appendix A
Response to comments:
Comments to Author:
Editorial comments:
As reviewer 3 states, this is a proof of concept paper. You may wish to consider changing
the title of your manuscript to reflect this.
Now entitled “Modelling the species jump: towards assessing the risk of human infection
from novel avian influenzas”.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The revised manuscript addresses many of my previous concerns. The stated goals of
creating a model of specific avian influenza spillovers into humans is reasonable as
described as modeled.
However, some issues still remain (and which created confusion the first time around),
including the extensive discussion in various places (Abstract, Introduction, elsewhere)
about influenza emergence in epidemics and pandemics - which is at odds with the specific
goals of this study and model presented to look at two viruses in poultry which can infect
humans in spillovers, but which show little onward transmission.
As such further revision of the text is needed to keep the focus on the specific objectives of
this studies; and clarify that any connections to further spread and epidemics are uncertain
and explicitly not part of the model being presented here. Other statements create confusion
- e.g. "aims to address the problem of identifying which influenza strains are more likely to
jump the species barrier...a prerequisite for a pandemic." I am not sure where this is being
addressed here around the two virus strains being examined, and a rewording and focusing
is needed to clarify what is being done compared to the grand synthesis that is necessary to
predict pandemic emergence, which is not being done here.
While we appreciate the valid concerns of the reviewer that the reader is not misled over the
scope of the model, it is impossible not to mention pandemic influenza in reasonable detail
because this is, ultimately, the driver for the funding of the project and the development of
the model. The model presented is not intended simply as a tool to assess zoonotic H5N1
and H7N9, and so it would be misleading to present the paper as such. The risk model is
intended to be generic for all zoonotic influenzas, of which we take two well-established
examples of a zoonotic influenza to validate the model (we could not do more strains as time
and data did not allow). Further, the intention is that the framework could be expanded in
the future to include the risk assessment of potentially pandemic influenzas. So, it is
intentional that we do discuss pandemic influenzas, as that is the ultimate (albeit very long-
term!) goal. We believe we go to some lengths to address the difficulty of assessing
pandemic risk, as well as making sure that the reader is aware that this is a proof-of-concept
model that does NOT model pandemic risk, but rather is a first stage towards that ambition.
This is a well-accepted approach to modelling (and surely laboratory work) – do something
simple(r) first, and then iteratively improve upon it. Whilst we must be careful to not mislead
the reader (and we think it is now clear what we are trying to achieve), we don’t think it
benefits the reader to play down further the pandemic issue if this is the driver for the
funding, and the long-term goal of the modelling work.
Having said this, we do wish to take on board all valid criticism, and there can never be
enough clarification of a) model scope and b) the question/s being asked of the model. We
have therefore made some further large modifications to the introduction and discussion to
address again the valid concern of the reviewer (which is that the reader does not confuse
the aim of the model with regards zoonotic/pandemic risk).
1. Reading between the lines, we think perhaps much of the issue is the choice of
H5N1 and H7N9, which the reviewer rightly notes are only zoonotic, and as we think
we show in the paper, a long way from being considered potentially pandemic. The
choice of these two viruses was simply because we have the most data on them,
which allows us to be more confident in our validation of the model. They also
provide two well-known case studies that virologists can readily recognise and
interpret. We did not choose them on the basis of perceived pandemic threat. This
has been made explicit in the introduction, and we add some further discussion to
clarify that these are very “avian” influenzas that are a long way from looking like
efficient human-human viruses.
2. The intro and discussion have been modified to make even more explicit the
rationale for developing the model: we want a pandemic risk assessment model that
can be used to prioritise which strains to target for surveillance and control, but we
recognise that we are a long way from the ability to do this. Instead, we show proof
of principle by taking a smaller chunk of the pandemic pathway (zoonotic infection)
and show that, by taking some reasonably simple first principles of disease
transmission, we can start to reflect some of the understood epidemiology of H5N1
and H7N9 infections in people in a model that is global, relatively easy to
parameterise and quick to run (so hopefully useful as a tool for a decision-maker).
This iterative approach to modelling is well-accepted and we don’t think we should
ignore the ultimate (third or fourth iteration) aim of this work for fear of accidentally
misleading the reader.
We genuinely hope the modifications are enough to allay the concerns of the reviewer, as
we do acknowledge – and agree – with most of the issue raised. However, as stated, we do
not feel it would be correct to eliminate the text on pandemic influenzas, as it is vital to
understand the rationale of the project derivation.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I appreciate the scale of the problem the authors have undertaken and their goal of providing
a decision-making tool in risk assessment. I also think the authors did a fine job of
addressing comments by previous reviewers. I think the framework does a fine job of
capturing all the fundamental aspects of spillover risk but I am uncomfortable with the
simplicity (although I understand the need to start somewhere).
The model is designed to be simple such that it can be used with relatively few data, but still
give a reasonable differentiation between high and low risk viruses. More complexity would
mean dealing with more data scarcity. We think it is unlikely that further complexity would be
warranted except if trying to target in on a certain area (for example, we could see the
benefit of using better national data sources if focusing in on countries in SE Asia), but the
initial aim was to try and produce a global model.
My concerns are:
1) I would like to see a description of how FAO generates chicken population density data. I
would be surprised if they can capture many if even some backyard poultry operations.
There is a paper referenced in the manuscript (Robinson et al 2014) where much of the
detail is given on how population densities are derived. We have added some further detail
to the text in our paper to elaborate on the method (basically take sub-national data and do
some regression on it using some environmental predictor variables). FAO have done a lot
of work on backyard chickens in SE Asia and Africa (where the vast majority of these birds
are) and so have some reasonable – if not universal – data on backyard chickens. Arguably
there must still be some gaps, which FAO recognise, but the maps represent by far our best
estimate at the moment. We have added in some text to discuss this issue, although we still
believe that separating out commercial and backyard chickens is a significant step forward in
modelling contact intensity rather than simply taking chickens as a whole.
2) I am uncomfortable with the idea with densities being a proxy for contact intensity. In fact,
in some areas large commercial operations, which would be “high density poultry zones”
have very little contact with humans due to high biosecurity, whereas small backyard
operations may have a lot more and barely be registered in the dataset. This show be
discussed.
This is accounted for by the wj parameter, which attempts to describe the chicken:human
ratio. We have some data to suggest chicken:human ratio for backyard chickens is around
1:1, and we have assumed that the ratio for commercial chicken is of the order of magnitude
of 10,000:1 (a very rough estimate of average flock size divided by number of farm workers).
Indeed, if you look closely at the contact intensity map, you will see contact intensity is
largely guided by backyard chicken density, and not commercial chicken density, due to the
scaling back of commercial chicken influence by the wj parameter. Description seems to be
missing from current versions of paper – added back in.
3) Is there a typo in equation 2? I would assume it should be 1-e^-x not 1-e^x unless I’m
missing something.
Correct! Thank you!
4) Why use the word poultry when you are talking about chickens? As mentioned by a
previous reviewer, ducks are important (and widespread) and I think it’s important for the
reader to remember that you are only talking about risk from chickens.
We have revised the manuscript to only mention poultry when talking in general terms, and
chickens when describing the model inputs/outputs.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have revised the manuscript according to the reviewers concerns. I feel the
proof of concept would be stronger if the authors considered risk of transmission from ducks
as well as chickens to humans. I also feel the authors could provide an example of another
avian influenza virus (e.g., H5N2 in the US) as an example of the potential utility of the
model they developed.
The paper was submitted to Royal Society Interface sometime before the H5N2 outbreak
occurred.
In addition, at the moment it takes a very long time to collate data for a particular strain due
to a lack of infrastructure that keeps genetic and metadata together – making it a detective’s
job to piece together bits of information from different sources to get one record to put
through the model. This is one of our main messages – the model could easily run many
different strains very quickly, but as of now the data collection infrastructure does not allow
this (even with relatively recent isolates from H7N9 we could only match around 30-40% of
isolates from GenBank to metadata in Empres-i). This is already in the discussion.
It is therefore not possible to include any more strains at this time as the project finished
some time ago and many of the original project team have now left their respective institutes.
It is intended that FAO will eventually trial the model using their own databases (once IP
formalities are dealt with). We presume H5N2 would be a natural first virus to investigate!
Society Open
