First empirical evidence of naturally occurring androgenesis
in vertebrates
Miguel Morgado-Santos, Sara Carona, Luís Vicente and Maria João Collares-Pereira
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170200.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170200
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170200.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Peter Baumann)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I find this a very interesting contribution to the fields of reproductive biology and evolution. I am
not overly concerned about the fact that only one individual is described in the study as the
authors make no bold statements as to frequency of occurrence. In general, I share another
reviewer's concern about republishing data while emphasizing a different angle of analysis.
However, in this case I think it is justified as few people interested in androgenesis would learn
about this discovery based on the 2016 paper entitled "Reproductive dynamics shapes
genomotype composition in an allopolyploid complex." It is importnat that the authors clearly
state that the dataset is identical to what was previously published.
The manuscript needs a small amount of further language editing.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Karine Van Doninck)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached pdf file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170200)
07-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Morgado-Santos
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170200 entitled
"First empirical evidence of naturally-occurring androgenesis in vertebrates" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
3
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170200
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
4
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Apr-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
Many thanks for submitting this transfer and addressing the majority of the referee's concerns
from the earlier submission. The referees have recommended accept with minor revision for your
submission; however, I would like to draw your attention to referee 1's commentary especially,
regarding the citation of the dataset. Royal Society Open Science encourages data and text
mining, but please ensure that you clearly state that the dataset previously existed and provide a
citation for it.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I find this a very interesting contribution to the fields of reproductive biology and evolution. I am
not overly concerned about the fact that only one individual is described in the study as the
authors make no bold statements as to frequency of occurrence. In general, I share another
reviewer's concern about republishing data while emphasizing a different angle of analysis.
However, in this case I think it is justified as few people interested in androgenesis would learn
about this discovery based on the 2016 paper entitled "Reproductive dynamics shapes
genomotype composition in an allopolyploid complex." It is importnat that the authors clearly
state that the dataset is identical to what was previously published.
The manuscript needs a small amount of further language editing.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached pdf file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170200)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170200.R1)
27-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Morgado-Santos,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "First empirical evidence of naturally-
occurring androgenesis in vertebrates" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
6
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A - Reviewer 2's report for RSOS-170200.R0
The study presents preliminary results of spontaneous androgenesis in vertebrates .
General review:
This is a nice paper, discovering spontaneous androgenesis in a fish hybrid complex. It
appears to be the first discovery of spontaneous androgenesis in a vertebrate, previous
reports were showing artificial androgenesis. This study makes it an original
contribution to the field and of interest to scientists in evolutionary biology and
vertebrate biology. Moreover, the authors have already published several papers on this
hybrid fish complex, having obtained a handful of interesting results unravelling the
reproductive dynamics of Squalius alburnoides allopolyploid complex. The manuscript
presented here is concise and clear, but my main concern is that only one individual was
ound to support the hypothesis of spontaneous androgenesis in this fish complex.
Moreover, the discovery of an allodiploid androgenetic organism was already reported
n their paper Morgado-Santos_etal_2016 (Proceedings B) on page 4 (Results section). I
consider it is not worth an entire article in Proceedings B just to mention the discovery
of one androgenetic vertebrate individual (which was already reported). Instead the
authors should, at this stage, study distinct natural populations of this fish complex since
they have access to it (see Morgado-Santos etal_2015_PloS One) and try to unravel the
requency of spontaneous androgenesis in these natural populations. Currently it is not
clear whether this is an exceptional scenario (discovered in an artificial pond), an
experimental artefact or a novel reproductive mode (indeed rare) within this hybrid
complex.
Finally, the material and methods of this paper are those of Morgado-Santos_etal_2016
(Proceedings B) and I therefore think it would have made more sense to add a figure in
that paper published in 2016 showing the first androgenetic allodiploid found.
Specific comments:
Lines 60-61 : here the reference of Morgado-Santos_etal_2016 (Proceedings B)
should be given since it has been reported there!
Lines 69-73: to better understand the entire reproductive mode dynamics of this
hybrid fish complex I had to read the other manuscripts. It is too concise here to be
clear. But again this paper does not contain enough results to stand-alone.
Material & methods: this entire section is the experiment done in Morgado-
Santos_etal_2016 (Proceedings B), see pages 2 and 3 (Material and methods section).
Authors are re-writing it here but it is not needed since it has been described in detail in
the other paper. Again this paper is one result of Morgado-Santos_etal_2016
(Proceedings B) developed a little more in detail here. This does not deserve publication
as an article in Proceedings B.
Result and Discussion section: it is an interesting discussion, part of it can
although be read in other papers. On line 172 the authors state ‘how frequent is this
reproductive mode in natural populations’ and I think the results of this experiment
should become their next research article on androgenesis in this fascinating fish hybrid
complex.
Appendix B
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS
To: Royal Society Open Science Editor-in-Chief
Subject: Manuscript RSOS-170200
Dear Editor-in-Chief,
We are pleased to resubmit to Royal Society Open Science the revised version of our
manuscript entitled “First empirical evidence of naturally-occurring androgenesis in
vertebrates”. We are most grateful to you and to two other anonymous reviewers for
the useful and insightful comments we received on April 07th 2017. Our responses to all
the comments follow in the next pages. We truly hope that our handling of the
suggestions will please you and the reviewers.
Yours sincerely,
Miguel Morgado-Santos (on behalf of all co-authors)
Responses to comments from
Associate Editor:
Comment #1: Many thanks for submitting this transfer and addressing the majority of
the referee's concerns from the earlier submission. The referees have recommended
accept with minor revision for your submission; however, I would like to draw your
attention to referee 1's commentary especially, regarding the citation of the dataset.
Royal Society Open Science encourages data and text mining, but please ensure that
you clearly state that the dataset previously existed and provide a citation for it.
Response: Though the main microsatellite and mitochondrial data needed to evidence
the results reported herein are part of this manuscript (Table 1 and Fig. 2, respectively),
we now state more clearly at the end of the Introduction that the present findings were
obtained from a previously published dataset, providing the respective citation:
“Herein, using the same dataset previously published [12], which was obtained from an
empirical study of a random sample from a natural population that was transferred to a
pond and allowed to reproduce without any human interference, a new reproductive
mode for S. alburnoides complex was discovered – spontaneous androgenesis –
representing the first documented report of its natural occurrence among vertebrates.”
(lines 122-126).
Responses to comments from
Reviewer #1:
Comment #1: I find this a very interesting contribution to the fields of reproductive
biology and evolution. I am not overly concerned about the fact that only one individual
is described in the study as the authors make no bold statements as to frequency of
occurrence. In general, I share another reviewer's concern about republishing data
while emphasizing a different angle of analysis. However, in this case I think it is
justified as few people interested in androgenesis would learn about this discovery
based on the 2016 paper entitled "Reproductive dynamics shapes genomotype
composition in an allopolyploid complex." It is important that the authors clearly state
that the dataset is identical to what was previously published. The manuscript needs a
small amount of further language editing.
Response: As previously referred, the main microsatellite and mitochondrial data
needed to evidence the results reported herein are part of this manuscript (Table 1 and
Fig. 2, respectively). We now state more clearly at the end of the Introduction that the
present findings were obtained from a previously published dataset, providing the
respective citation:
“Herein, using the same dataset previously published [12], which was obtained from an
empirical study of a random sample from a natural population that was transferred to a
pond and allowed to reproduce without any human interference, a new reproductive
mode for S. alburnoides complex was discovered – spontaneous androgenesis –
representing the first documented report of its natural occurrence among vertebrates.”
(lines 122-126).
Responses to comments from
Reviewer #2:
Comment #1: This is an interesting short paper, discovering spontaneous androgenesis
in a fish hybrid complex. It appears to be the first discovery of spontaneous
androgenesis in a vertebrate, previous reports were showing artificial androgenesis.
This study is an original contribution to the field and of interest to scientists in
evolutionary biology and vertebrate biology. Moreover, the authors have already
published several papers on this hybrid fish complex, having obtained a handful of
interesting results unravelling the reproductive dynamics of Squalius alburnoides
allopolyploid complex. The manuscript presented here is concise and clear and my
main concern was that only one individual was found to support the hypothesis of
spontaneous androgenesis in this fish complex. Moreover, the discovery of an
allodiploid androgenetic organism was already reported in their paper Morgado-
Santos_etal_2016 (Proceedings B) on page 4 (Results section). I considered it not worth
an entire article in Proceedings B just to mention the discovery of one androgenetic
vertebrate individual. The revised manuscript has been improved and the discussion
related to the importance of this androgenetic lineage within this hybrid complex is
interesting. I therefore accept publication within this journal Royal Society Open
Science. I urge the authors, at this stage, to study distinct natural populations of this
fish complex (in the North and the South) and try to unravel the frequency of
spontaneous androgenesis in these natural populations. I agree with the authors
androgenesis could be a rare but interesting reproductive mode in this hybrid complex
to maintain allodiploid males and not only rely on the S. pyrenaicus species.
Response: Our team will certainly continue to study this fascinating hybrid complex,
including the incidence of androgenesis in wild populations, not only aiming to unravel
androgenetic lineages, but also to assess the relevance of its role towards the
independence of the hybrid complex from the parental species.
Comment #2: Lines 118-119: the authors mention that the hybrid organisms produce
unreduced gametes but following Fig1 (and also in the previous version of the
manuscript) all the females (hybrid or sexual) appear to produce haploid oocytes (all n)
and all contain the ‘a’ genome? The authors should be very precise in the explanation
of the reproductive dynamics of this fish complex since they want this paper to
standalone.
Response: Reproductive modes vary among hybrid genomotypes, with some producing
reduced gametes (n or 2n) and other unreduced gametes (2n or 3n), as illustrated in Fig.
1 and explained in the Introduction:
“]). In the breeding system of this fish complex, though natural populations are highly
female-biased, there is a clear sperm-dependency (sensu [14]), with hybrid individuals
reproducing either sexually or nonsexually (sensu [13]). All known genomotypes are
fertile, exhibiting a wide range of reproductive modes, including regular (sexual)
meiosis, meiotic hybridogenesis and clonal gametogenesis (reviewed in [13]). Some
allotriploid females can produce both reduced and unreduced gametes simultaneously
[15], and males and females of the same genomotype may have distinct reproductive
modes [16,17].” (lines 98-105).
We now added the information on reproductive modes to the caption of Fig. 1, to help
clarify this issue:
“Reproductive modes include a) regular meiosis in S. pyrenaicus males and females
(producing haploid P gametes) and in balanced tetraploids (producing diploid PA
gametes); b) meiotic hybridogenesis in triploid females (producing haploid A oocytes);
and c) clonal spermatogenesis in diploid and triploid males (producing diploid PA and
triploid PAA or PPA spermatozoa, respectively).” (lines 395-399).
Comment #3: Moreover I did prefer the Figure 1 in the previous manuscript submitted
to Proceedings B, it better shows the reproductive dynamics within this allopolyploid
fish complex. In Figure 1 submitted here the genomotypes are not even given, making it
more confusing.
Response: In this version of the figure, we excluded the specific genomotypes and
decided to only show the ploidies because this reproductive dynamics do not apply only
to the studied population (Ocreza River), but to all northern populations dominated by
triploid females, where AA males are absent. This attempt to generalize the diagram is
now clarified in the caption:
“Figure 1. Ploidy level cascade of the reproductive framework of the S. alburnoides
allopolyploid complex in the studied stretch of the Ocreza River (Tagus drainage,
Central Portugal), illustrating the typical reproductive dynamics of northern
populations dominated by triploid females.” (lines 390-393).
Although the genomotypes in Tagus drainage (which includes Ocreza River) contain the
P genome (from S. pyrenaicus), northern populations comprise the C genome instead
(from S. carolitertii). Thus, adding such a multitude of different genomotypes in a
single diagram would make it difficult to read and understand. Moreover, this version of
Fig. 1 illustrates better the mandatory influence of the bisexual Squalius species in the
ploidy level cascade of the hybrid complex, compared with the previous, less
generalized, diagram.
Comment #4: Lines 141-142: Are these the genomotypes found only for the S.
alburnoides fish complex in Ocreza river?
Response: The fish composition shown in the sentence refers to S. alburnoides, but also
to S. pyrenaicus fishes. It was now clarified in the text:
“All sampled fishes (S. alburnoides hybrids and S. pyrenaicus, PP; N=52), composed of
PAA (N=23) and PP (N=9) females, and by PA (N=6), PAA (N=1), PPA (N=2), PPAA
(N=1) and PP (N=10) males…” (lines 141-143).
Comment #5: Lines 169: in M&M (lines 155) 100 YOY were selected while here in the
results 261 YOY are described as S. alburnoides. Was the species morphologically
determined? Be precise
Response: Yes, initially, the entire offspring sample (N=261) were morphologically
identified to species and later confirmed through flow cytometry (which revealed only
triploid individuals besides the diploid androgenetic YOY). This was now clarified in
the text:
“All 261 YOYs obtained in the pond were morphologically identified as S. alburnoides,
with no S. pyrenaicus (PP) found. Flow cytometry revealed that only one of the YOYs
randomly sampled (N=100) was diploid, with all the others being triploid (for more
results and details, see [12]), and the sequence of the ß-actin gene revealed that the
diploid individual, with 5.1 cm of standard length, was an allodiploid (PA genomotype).
Further flow cytometry analyses of all the remaining YOYs (N=161) revealed only
triploid individuals.” (lines 170-175).
Comment #6: Lines 174-177: indeed with the genomotypes retrieved in river Ocreza
only allotriploid females with S. pyrenaicus males can produce a allodiploid male. The
other combination possible in this hybrid complex would be AA males crossing with
PPA females but AA males were not retrieved here. Add this here in the discussion!
Response: This alternative way to produce allodiploids only applies to southern
populations, where AA males are present. However, this reproductive way is highly
unlikely even in southern populations, since PPA individuals are extremely rare.
Regardless of this, we clarified in the text that the rationale of the referred sentence
applies solely to populations in which AA males are absent (i.e. all northern
populations, including the studied Ocreza one):
“According to present knowledge, the only way to obtain allodiploid offspring in
populations where AA males are absent (i.e. all northern populations [13]) is through
crosses between allotriploid females (which generally produce haploid A oocytes by
meiotic hybridogenesis) and males of the sympatric Squalius species (which produce
haploid sperm by regular meiosis) (Fig. 1), emphasizing the reproductive dependence of
the hybrid complex towards the sympatric bisexual species of the Squalius genus.”
(lines 175-181).
Comment #7: “Lines 191-194: the authors mention here alleles (line 192) for a
mitochondrial analysis? Refer to haplotypes instead of alleles.”
Response: The text was changed accordingly:
“As a side outcome from mitochondrial DNA analysis, haplotypes from S. alburnoides
and S. pyrenaicus showed marked differences (Fig. 2)…” (lines 193-195).
Comment #8: Also the result presented here is not clear. The number of base
differences between S. alburnoides and S. pyrenaicus is not shown in Fig. 2, only the
differences with the androgenetic descendant. Discussion is well written and
interesting.
Response: Since the divergence between S. alburnoides and S. pyrenaicus
mitochondrial genome is a collateral result, not directly related to the main findings
reported in the present article, we did not perform any further in-depth analysis (e.g.
pairwise comparisons). However, in Fig. 2, we compared the mitochondrial base
differences between all S. alburnoides females and all S. pyrenaicus females with one S.
alburnoides mitochondrial haplotype (the one of the androgenetic YOY), working as a
control template for the comparison, which evidenced that the number of base
differences is higher for S. pyrenaicus than for S. alburnoides. Thus, although
indirectly, this result evidence that S. pyrenaicus and S. alburnoides diverge in their
mitochondrial genomes, as reported in previous studies, which suggests that S.
pyrenaicus females do not participate actively in S. alburnoides reproductive dynamics,
hampering S. pyrenaicus mitochondrial gene flow into the hybrid complex.
Society Open
