Novel Fibonacci and non-Fibonacci structure in the
sunflower: results of a citizen science experiment
Jonathan Swinton, Erinma Ochu and The MSI Turing's Sunflower Consortium
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160091.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160091
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 April 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160091.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
== sent by email Uploaded by office ==
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached file (See Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file. (See Appendix B)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160091)
07-Apr-2016
Dear Dr Swinton
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160091 entitled
"Novel Fibonacci and non-Fibonacci structure in the sunflower: results of a citizen science
experiment" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
3
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160091
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
4
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Apr-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160091)
Thank you for the acceptance. We’re grateful to both referees for their constructive comments. We have
read their comments carefully and revised the paper where appropriate.
Referee 1
We agree that the numbers of the general public participating is worth knowing and we provided it in Table
5 of the Supplementary Information.
1) We sympathise with the reviewer’s difficulty in reading the Figures. We have substantially increased the
Figure size. We have made some deletions from the main paper detailed below but we note that the other
Referee suggests the paper is already well written.
2) We have clarified the legend to Figure 1 to explain the format of the left-right Figures. We have corrected
our error in describing Figure 12 as showing clockwise rather than anticlockwise parastichies, and reworded
this sentence to remove the potential for misunderstanding. We have clarified the legend to Figure 5.
3) We have reflected on the notation issue at some length. If the primary audience for the paper was a
sophisticated mathematical one then a consistent and concise one such as the reviewer suggests would be
valuable, not least in demonstrating the links between the series. However we think it is an attainable and
valuable goal to make the paper accessible to unsophisticated mathematical readers as well and the use of
words rather than symbols where possible is important for this whilst not losing mathematical precision.
4) We agree with the reviewer and have substantially reduced this section since it is not essential to the
main argument. The argument in 2(c) is that large departures from the golden ratio are indications of non
Fibonacci, indicating that further examination is warranted, not that closeness to the golden ratio implies
Fibonacci.
5) We do indeed intend to address in future work which sets of observations will challenge which models and
it is tempting to do so here. But it was a central goal of this data gathering work to be model-neutral. We
fear that any brief discussion of models would attract disproportionate criticism and any long discussion
derail the paper so we think it inappropriate to include.
6
Referee 2
1) We have clarified this as suggested.
2) We have removed the definition from 2a and rewritten the paragraph; the definition of approximate is
deliberately, um approximate here but is given in detail in section 3(d)
3) Rewritten; this was meant to be a reference to the Supplementary Information.
4) Corrected.
5) We agree with this comment as with Ref 1’s first comment and have enlarged the Figures.
6) We agree but we will ask the editors to do this.
7) Corrected
8) We do not know what the reviewer’s comment is and the caption seems correct to us.
9) Clarified.
10) Clarified.
==============
In response to your acceptance letter, I can confirm that no Ethics statement is required, that all the data
has been deposited in Dryad, that we have declared the absence of competing interests and included a
contribution, acknowledgement and finding section.
Some of the reviewers' comments were to do with the formatting of the tables, and this seems to me an
issue on which I should take the guidance of your subeditors, so I have not modified the .tex file which
accordingly still produces overlarge tables. If I can be of any help with this issue please let me know. Please
note that the .tex file I supplied was automatically produced using the Sweave package of R.
The tex file produces one PDF containing both the main text and the supplementary information. The two
PDFs previously provided were created by manually splitting the PDF in a separate step. It seems to me that
it would be better to offer a single PDF to the reader but that is a matter for you.
Appendix A
Comments on Manuscript ID RSOS-160091 submitted to Royal Society Open
Science, titled "Novel Fibonacci and non-Fibonacci structure in the sunflower:
results of a citizen science experiment" by Swinton et al..
This is an admirable paper. It reports on a phenomenon that is capable of
attracting attention and interest on the part of anyone, and the observations have
been carried out by members of the general public. (How many? It would be
worth knowing.) The basic finding reported by Swinton et al. is that a count of
sunflower seedheads, long ‘known’ to consist of spiral clockwise and
anticlockwise families, each of them adding up to a Fibonacci number of heads,
in fact exhibits much variability. The underlying signal is overlaid with a
significant amount of noise, a fact that confronts theoretical and computational
models with new and potentially challenging problems. The paper certainly
deserves publication. At the same time, it seems to me that its message can be
got across more effectively. Here are some suggestions.
1. Reduce the content of the main paper. Decide which figures are
essential for conveying the essence of the story to the general reader. Let
the rest go with the detailed counts into ‘supplementary information’,
where specialists can study them (I have not done so). The room gained
thereby can be used to scale up figures 2, 3 and 5, which are barely
readable when printed.
2. Explain what the left and right parts of a figure stand for. Descriptions
in the text do not always tally with what hits the eye. For instance, in fig
1(left), a clockwise red spiral is visible; the text refers only to ‘a
clockwise family highlighted in blue’ (true for the figure on the right).
Another instance comes under ‘Countable, but not Fibonacci’ (p.13),
where fig.11 (left) shows clockwise parastichies and fig.12 shows only
anticlockwise parastichies; the text indicates otherwise. In the legend to
fig.5, do Fib/Not and Not/Fib mean the same thing? Or is a specific
ordering of handedness (or relative size) meant?
3. Use a notation that is easier to follow. The symbols F5 and F8 indicate
how: F(2) can stand for the standard Fibonacci sequence, F(3) for the
Lucas sequence, F(2x2) for the ‘double Fibonacci’, etc., and the system
can be extended to F(2-1), F(2+1), and so on (parentheses help in
situations like the last three). Transparent notation will be of much help in
reading the graphs and tables. On a related but relatively minor point, be
consistent in the use of ‘anticlockwise’ (‘counter-clockwise’ crops up in a
few places).
4. The ‘Hypothesis of Geometrical Phyllotaxis’ (p.4) does not come
through clearly. Try to describe it better. In particular, explain what
makes it a generic explanation for cases of parastichy number increase of
the sort mentioned there. There were two points made regarding
parastichies that left me puzzled. First, if an (i,j) pair becomes (i, i+j), or
(i, i-j), …, it is clear that Fibonacci structure will not be preserved. The
text appears to indicate otherwise. Second (this is with reference to
fig.5), sequences of the sort F(2±m) , where m is any integer, will also
yield the golden ratio. It is easy to see this: suppose Fn+1 = Fn +Fn-1 +m.
then Fn+1/Fn = 1 + Fn-1/Fn +m/Fn, and in the limit, Fn+1/Fnthe golden
ratio (m/Fn will always 0).
5. Under ‘Discussion’ say in brief which set of observations reported here
are likely to challenge any particular model, and why. I mean the sort of
thing that is stated on top of p.5.
pendix B
ort on
vel Fibonacci and non-Fibonacci structure in the sunflower: ...'
J. Swinton, E. Ochu et al.
: RSOS-160091.
s paper reports on a citizen science experiment that has collected and
lysed the structure of a large
ber of sunflower heads, looking for structure consistent with, or at least
ated to, Fibonacci
bers of spirals within the sunflower seed heads.
paper presents little plant physiological or mathematical analysis: its
ength lies in the size of the dataset, and
identification of several variants on the basic set of Fibonacci numbers
ch together pose new questions for
phogenetic theories.
m happy to recommend publication of the paper; it is well written, and
ailed. In general the figures could be larger,
the tables better laid out in order to bring out which numbers are being
divided into categories; there are minor
ments below.
or comments
p3, sec 2b. Definition of foliation: perhaps better to write '... in an
ular region of the seedhead lies on exactly
member of the family.'
p4, sec 2c. Line 2: insert 'of' before 'the Fibonacci sequence'. Didn't the
inition in 2a of 'Fibonacci pair' include the adjacency requirement
eady? Could you be more precise about 'is approximately equal to'? Line 7:
ds a capital I on 'In'.
p5, sec 2d, para 2, line 1. The wording 'Each data submission...' confused
- could this be rewritten? I would prefer '...and each of these photos was
ked up...'. Heuristics in section 2(b) would also be clearer.
p4, sec 2e, last line. Typo.
Figs 2,3,4 and especially 5 are hard to read - please enlarge.
p7, table 1. Insert lines between lines 1 and 2 and lines 6 and 7 to set
s out better as 3 sections within the one table? Could be made clearer
ch lines should sum to which totals.
p8, line 32 of the page . 'few' -> 'small'.
Fig 8, caption 'A (73,45) example, ...'
Fig 9. Right hand image. What is the red circle in the lower right centre
ng here?
Fig 11, caption, line 2. What does 'inner clockwise of 20' mean here?
Society Open
