Scalable population-level modelling of biological cells
incorporating mechanics and kinetics in continuous time
Stefan Engblom, Daniel B. Wilson and Ruth E. Baker
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180379.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180379
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 March 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180379.R0)
30-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Engblom
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180379 entitled
"Scalable population-level modeling of biological cells incorporating mechanics and kinetics in
continuous time" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science but before we
can move the manuscript forward, we require the following from you:
-- An editable file-type version of your manuscript's main text (a Word or LaTeX version is
preferred);
-- Individual figure files for each figure;
-- Individual table files for each table;
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-May-2018). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Diwakar Shukla (Associate Editor) and Catrin Pritchard (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180379.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180379.R1)
18-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Engblom,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Scalable population-level modeling of
biological cells incorporating mechanics and kinetics in continuous time" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
3
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Diwakar Shukla (Associate Editor) and Catrin Pritchard (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear editors,
thank you for this positive decision.
I have prepared a final version and hereby submit the article
.tex-file, .bbl-file, .bib-file, as well as artworks in .pdf formats.
In the mail dated 31/10/17 sent from within the original submission to
Interface, it was stated that:
"Royal Society Open Science is a fast, open access journal publishing
high-quality research across all of science and mathematics, and that
is offering an ongoing fee waiver for authors."
Per the web-page there was a note indicating that submissions
forwarded to RSOS prior to 2018 would be free of charge
We understood this as if this resubmission would be free of charge.
Sincerely,
Stefan Engblom, corresponding author
-- Update --
Dear editors -
it has been a cumbersome process to submit this. Please advice.
-I have very clearly indicated with the submission that we are meeting
the payment in full and have indicated the invoice address details.
-I have previously given up the fee waiver as the reasons no longer
seem to apply and as I cannot get an answer to whether or not the
redirecting to RSOS would be free of charge if done prior to 2018
(which happened here). I cannot fill out the fee waiver in a
meaningful way.
Sincerely,
Stefan Engblom, corresponding
Society Open
