Landslides and dam damage resulting from the Jiuzhaigou
earthquake (8 August 2017), Sichuan, China
Bo Zhao, Yun-sheng Wang, Yong-hong Luo, Jia Li, Xin Zhang and Tong Shen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171418.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171418
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171418.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript attempts to investigate landslides and dam break/damage caused by the recent
Jiuzhaigou earthquake, which is potentially interesting to the wide earth science community.
However, this manuscript is written as a technical (or field) note rather than as a research article,
and there is no obvious contribution to the literature.
The manuscript is poorly written and English should be significantly improved. It appeared that
the authors confused geohazards with geodisasters; "Handing wall" should be "Hanging wall".
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (H. Wen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Dear Authors,
I’ve read this article for possible publication in the Journal Royal Society Open Science. My
comments are reported in the following and I hope these may be of help to the authors for their
revision work.
(1)I would say this article’s content style is partly similar to the two other papers published in
Landslides and Bull Eng Geol Environ by Yin(2009, DOI 10.1007/s10346-009-0148-5) and
Huang(2009, DOI 10.1007/s10064-009-0207-0) respectively. The authors are highly encouraged to
review recent work on geo-hazards conducted by earthquake, and to highlight the contribution of
this paper in the part 1.
(2)Keywords do not fit with the usual subjects to facilitate the looking for of information for an
3
index journal.
(3)The structure of “2 Geological background” is little confusing, I would recommend that the
authors to restructure this paper and provide more information on the results.
(4)Cut the title “Basic description” (Page 3 Line 12)
(5)I would recommend that the content of “Basic description” should be removed into “2
Geological background”.
(6)I can’t obtain the information “The map contains 1780 landslide initiation points, 1 dam 1 and
1 dam collapse” from Figure 3 (Page 4). However, the other relevant information are “1782
geohazards are triggered by Jiuzhaigou earthquake include 1780 landslides, 1 dam damage
(Nuorilang waterfall) and 1 dam break (Huohua lake)” by Page 1 Line 4-5 and below of the
Figure. Moreover, is the number of geo-hazards induced by this earthquake 1883 by remote
sensing interpretation in reference 11? The information is not consistence with each other.
(7)The content of “4 Analysis of geohazard distribution” is centered in the analysis of the
influencing factors, so all the title are not reasonable in this section.
(8)It seems there are three type of fault, including fault, faults and inferred seismic faults, which
is descripted in this paper, references 4 and 11, but the description of Landslide distribution is not
clear at the bottom of page 9, by which?
(9)There are so many factors of geo-hazards conducted by earthquake, such as there are 8 factors,
including distance to possible seismogenic fault, PGA, elevation, slope, aspect, curvature,
lithology, distance to stream, analyzed in reference 11, and over 12 factors are analyzed in other
references. What are the reasons for choosing these five factors in the paper??
(10)Are there two “4.4.1” in page 11 and page 13 separately?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171418)
05-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Zhao,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Geohazards induced by the Jiuzhaigou earthquake (August
8, 2017), Sichuan, China") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). When preparing a revised version
of the manuscript, pay particular attention to the writing style, specifically ensuring the the tone
is more that of a scientific research article, rather than a technical report. Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Jan-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
4
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171418
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Tim Wright (Associate Editor) and Jon Blundy (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Professor Tim Wright):
This article could be acceptable for publication after a major revision. The authors should pay
particular attention to the detailed comments of reviewer 2.
In addition, they should
(1) try to place the work in a wider context. How do the landslides induced by this event compare
to those in other recent earthquakes?
(2) modify the language and the title. The paper is primarily about landslides so I would prefer
the title to reflect that. Geohazards is a more general term that is slightly confusing in this context
I think. The title could be "Landslides and Dam damage induced by...". Dam damage and Dam
break could be merged into a single category "Damage to Dams". Then in the text, rather than
referring to "geohazards" the authors could refer to Landslides or Dam damage specifically.
(3) ensure that data produced in their study (e.g. landslide locations) are made available to
readers as supplementary items.
6
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This manuscript attempts to investigate landslides and dam break/damage caused by the recent
Jiuzhaigou earthquake, which is potentially interesting to the wide earth science community.
However, this manuscript is written as a technical (or field) note rather than as a research article,
and there is no obvious contribution to the literature.
The manuscript is poorly written and English should be significantly improved. It appeared that
the authors confused geohazards with geodisasters; "Handing wall" should be "Hanging wall".
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Dear Authors,
I’ve read this article for possible publication in the Journal Royal Society Open Science. My
comments are reported in the following and I hope these may be of help to the authors for their
revision work.
(1)I would say this article’s content style is partly similar to the two other papers published in
Landslides and Bull Eng Geol Environ by Yin(2009, DOI 10.1007/s10346-009-0148-5) and
Huang(2009, DOI 10.1007/s10064-009-0207-0) respectively. The authors are highly encouraged to
review recent work on geo-hazards conducted by earthquake, and to highlight the contribution of
this paper in the part 1.
(2)Keywords do not fit with the usual subjects to facilitate the looking for of information for an
index journal.
(3)The structure of “2 Geological background” is little confusing, I would recommend that the
authors to restructure this paper and provide more information on the results.
(4)Cut the title “Basic description” (Page 3 Line 12)
(5)I would recommend that the content of “Basic description” should be removed into “2
Geological background”.
(6)I can’t obtain the information “The map contains 1780 landslide initiation points, 1 dam 1 and
1 dam collapse” from Figure 3 (Page 4). However, the other relevant information are “1782
geohazards are triggered by Jiuzhaigou earthquake include 1780 landslides, 1 dam damage
(Nuorilang waterfall) and 1 dam break (Huohua lake)” by Page 1 Line 4-5 and below of the
Figure. Moreover, is the number of geo-hazards induced by this earthquake 1883 by remote
sensing interpretation in reference 11? The information is not consistence with each other.
(7)The content of “4 Analysis of geohazard distribution” is centered in the analysis of the
influencing factors, so all the title are not reasonable in this section.
(8)It seems there are three type of fault, including fault, faults and inferred seismic faults, which
is descripted in this paper, references 4 and 11, but the description of Landslide distribution is not
clear at the bottom of page 9, by which?
(9)There are so many factors of geo-hazards conducted by earthquake, such as there are 8 factors,
including distance to possible seismogenic fault, PGA, elevation, slope, aspect, curvature,
lithology, distance to stream, analyzed in reference 11, and over 12 factors are analyzed in other
references. What are the reasons for choosing these five factors in the paper??
(10)Are there two “4.4.1” in page 11 and page 13 separately?
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171418)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171418.R1)
23-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Zhao,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Landslides and dam damage resulting
from the Jiuzhaigou earthquake (August 8, 2017), Sichuan, China" is now accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Tim Wright (Associate Editor) and Jon Blundy (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Professor Tim Wright):
Thank you for your thorough response to the reviews. I am pleased now to accept the article for
publication
Appendix A
Response to Referees and Editor
Dear Reviewers and editor
Thank you very much for reviewing our manuscript and putting many useful suggestions for
enhancing the quality of this manuscript.
We have studied comments carefully and have made correction which we hope meet with
approval. Below are our responses to the Reviewer’s comments. Red words in the revise manuscript
is revised.
Response to Editor
C#1 Try to place the work in a wider context. How do the landslides induced by this event
compare to those in other recent earthquakes?
R#1 Ok Thank you for this comment. Based on this comment, we have added a chapter
“The typical features of the landslides of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake compared
with those of recent earthquakes” in Discussion.
C#2 Modify the language and the title. The paper is primarily about landslides so I would
prefer the title to reflect that. Geohazards is a more general term that is slightly
confusing in this context I think. The title could be "Landslides and Dam damage
induced by...". Dam damage and Dam break could be merged into a single category
"Damage to Dams". Then in the text, rather than referring to "geohazards" the authors
could refer to Landslides or Dam damage specifically.
R#2 Thank you for this comment. Based on Editor’s suggestion, we have revised the
manuscript title. The new title is “Landslides and dam damage resulting from the
Jiuzhaigou earthquake (August 8, 2017), Sichuan, China”
C#3 Ensure that data produced in their study (e.g. landslide locations) are made available to
readers as supplementary items.
R#3 Thank you for this comment. We have uploaded our revised data.
Response to Reviewer#1
C#1 This manuscript attempts to investigate landslides and dam break/damage caused by
the recent Jiuzhaigou earthquake, which is potentially interesting to the wide earth
science community. However, this manuscript is written as a technical (or field) note
rather than as a research article, and there is no obvious contribution to the literature.
R#1 Thank you for this comment. In recent year, many great earthquakes (such as 2008
Wenchuan China Ms 8.0 earthquake, 2013 Lushan China Ms 7.0 earthquake, 2015
Nepal Ms 8.1 earthquake, etc) have aroused the attention of the world.
As we all know, earthquake can cause the significant casualties and economic
losses. Particularly in mountainous areas, the damage caused by earthquake triggered
landslides may be more severe than the damage caused by the earthquake itself due to
it can bury the village, block the road and river, and poses a serious threat to disaster
relief, temporary resettlement and the reconstruction of the disaster area. It is of great
significance for reconstruction and reducing the damage caused by future earthquake
to make clear the distribution law of geohazards, their failure modes and mechanism
as soon as possible after the earthquake.
Jiuzhaigou earthquake is located in the World Cultural Heritage- Jiuzhaigou
scenic spot. Jiuzhaigou scenic spot is famous for its beautiful water, and this earthquake
damaged its famous points: Huohua lake and Nuorilang waterfall and caused many
landslides.
After the occurrence of Jiuzhaigou earthquake, our group went into earthquake
area for emergency field investigation at once. Based on our results of field
investigation and remote sensing interpretation, we provided many useful information
for disaster relief, and the governor of Sichuan Province also praised us for disaster
relief.
Now the earthquake area has entered the reconstruction stage, and our many
conclusions have been adopted: landslide distribution law and dynamic response has
been adopted to help choose location of villages and failure modes and mechanism of
landslides have been adopted to help make corresponding control measures. We think
our studies make a contribution to protect people’s lives in future time.
In order to increase the scientific value of this manuscript, we re- edited the whole
manuscript to enhance its scientific value, and in the Chapter “Introduction”, we
highlight our contributions: Our study focuses on the characterization of the
distribution and nature of landslides induced by the Jiuzhaigou earthquake and makes
a comparison of these data with previous observations made during the 2008 Wenchuan
Ms 8.0 earthquake and 2013 Lushan Ms 7.0 earthquake. This paper presents the
preliminary results of an inventory map of the landslides triggered by the Jiuzhaigou
earthquake in Sichuan Province, China. This study also aims to contribute to the further
understanding of the characteristics of landslides in the Jiuzhaigou region. In addition,
dynamic response, obtained from aftershock monitoring, is used to discuss the failure
mechanism of geohazards (landslide, and dam damage) couple with their
characteristics.
In addition, in order to improve the scientific value of this manuscript, we also
have added many data and analysis:
(1) We enriched the geological background. We added the detail regional
structure map (Figure 1 in manuscript) to illustrate the Jiuzhaigou region is
located in fault block boundary, many small earthquakes occurred in this
boundary, on great earthquake occurred until August 8, 2017 Jiuzhigou Ms
7.0 earthquake occurred.
(2) We add the dynamic response of Jiuzhaigou earthquake (aftershocks) to
discuss the amplification effect of Jiuzhaigou earthquake. after the Jiuzhaigou
earthquake, our group carried out an aftershock monitoring scheme at once to
study the dynamic response of Jiuzhaigou earthquake in Jiuzhaigou region.
Our monitoring data shows there exists obvious topographic magnification in
upper part of mountain, and combined with our previous earthquake
monitoring data in 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, 2013 Lushan earthquake,
Kangding Ms 5.8 earthquake, we discuss dynamic conditions of high position
landslides and why high position landslide occurred easily in Jiuzhaigou
region. In addition, the mechanism of back slope effect is also discussed.
(3) We added the discuss the features of landslides induced by Jiuzhaigou
earthquake compared other recent earthquakes (2008 Wenchuan Ms 8.0
earthquake and 2013 Lushan Ms 7.0 earthquake). this discussion makes up
clear on the most typical features of geohazards induced by Jiuzhaigou
earthquake compared to other similar earthquakes (2008 Wenchuan Ms 8.0
earthquake, and 2013 Lushan Ms 7.0 earthquake) in recent years.
(4) We added the discuss on the failure cause of dam damaged. Based on
monitoring data and field survey, we try to reveal the failure mechanism of
dam damaged (the dam damage of Nuorilang Waterfall and dam break of
Huohua lake).
C#2 The manuscript is poorly written and English should be significantly improved. It
appeared that the authors confused geohazards with geodisasters; "Handing wall"
should be "Hanging wall"
R#2 Thank you for this comment. Based on this comment, we have invited professional
English editing service company to polish up this manuscript to meet the
requirements of publication.
Response to Reviewer#2
C#1 I would say this article’s content style is partly similar to the two other papers published
in Landslides and Bull Eng Geol Environ by Yin (2009, DOI 10.1007/s10346-009-
0148-5) and Huang (2009, DOI 10.1007/s10064-009-0207-0) respectively. The authors
are highly encouraged to review recent work on geo-hazards conducted by earthquake,
and to highlight the contribution of this paper in the part 1.
R#1 Thank you for this comment. Based on reviewer’s comment, we have added the chapter
to introduce the recent work on geohazards conducted by earthquake, and necessary of
our work.
C#2 Keywords do not fit with the usual subjects to facilitate the looking for of information
for an index journal.
R#2 Thank you for this comment. We have revised keywords “Jiuzhaigou Ms 7.0
Earthquake, Landslides, Dam damage, failure mode, Distribution law”
C#3 The structure of “2 Geological background” is little confusing, I would recommend
that the authors to restructure this paper and provide more information on the results.
R#3 Thank you for this comment. Based on reviewer’s comment (C#3, C#4 and C#5), we
have restructured the Chapter 2 “Geological background”, and we put more result
information in this Chapter.
We have divided this chapter into 3 sub-chapters: (1) Regional geological background
of Jiuzhaigou earthquake, (2) Seismicity characteristics, (3) Basic description of
Geohazards induced by Jiuzhaigou earthquake.
C#4 Cut the title “Basic description” (Page 3 Line 12)
R#4 Thank you for this comment. We have deleted this title.
C#5 I would recommend that the content of “Basic description” should be removed into “2
Geological background”.
R#5 Thank you for this comment. We have added the content of “Basic Description” into
Chapter 2 “Geological background”.
C#6 I can’t obtain the information “The map contains 1780 landslide initiation points, 1
dam 1 and 1 dam collapse” from Figure 3 (Page 4). However, the other relevant
information is “1782 geohazards are triggered by Jiuzhaigou earthquake include 1780
landslides, 1 dam damage (Nuorilang waterfall) and 1 dam break (Huohua lake)” by
Page 1 Line 4-5 and below of the Figure. Moreover, is the number of geo-hazards
induced by this earthquake 1883 by remote sensing interpretation in reference 11? The
information is not consistence with each other.
R#6 Thank you for this comment. Based on this comment, we have re-edited the Figure 3.
In addition, the geohazard number in reference 11 is not consistent with our geohazard
number. This is because that their geohazard number (Xu Qiang Professor) is just
obtained by remote sensing interpretation without field investigation. Our geohazards
number is obtained from field investigation couple with remote sensing interpretation.
In our field investigations, we find some landslides are not induced by this earthquake,
or some landslides in remoting sensing interpretation while they belong to one
landslide by field investigation. Based on our field investigation, we check the remote
sensing interpretation, the geohazard number in this manuscript is the result after our
checking.
C#7 The content of “4 Analysis of geohazard distribution” is centered in the analysis of the
influencing factors, so all the title are not reasonable in this section.
R#7 Thank you for this comment. Based on this comment, we have revised this chapter title
as “Landslide distribution influenced by different factors”
C#8 It seems there are three types of fault, including fault, faults and inferred seismic faults,
which is descripted in this paper, references 4 and 11, but the description of Landslide
distribution is not clear at the bottom of page 9, by which?
R#8 Thank you for this comment. The fault in this manuscript is inferred seismic fault, and
this has been added to chapter
C#9 There are so many factors of geo-hazards conducted by earthquake, such as there are 8
factors, including distance to possible seismogenic fault, PGA, elevation, slope,
aspect, curvature, lithology, distance to stream, analyzed in reference 11, and over 12
factors are analyzed in other references. What are the reasons for choosing these five
factors in the paper?
R#9 Thank you for this comment. Yes, as you say, there are does many influence factors on
the occurrence of landslides. While, based on our detail field investigations and
comprehensive analysis, we choose these five obvious influence factors “earthquake
intensity, distance to possible seismogenic fault, slope angle, slope aspect, Valley
trend, Road”.
As we know, distance to seismogenic fault and earthquake intensity have direct
influence on the occurrence of landslides due to it can provide enough dynamic
conditions if landslide is closer to these. Therefore, we choose these two factors.
Our field investigations, we have already found the obvious back slope effect,
therefore, we choose factor “slope aspect”.
The factor “slope angle” is usually an obvious influence factor for occurrence of
landslides.
Our field investigations also show the geohazards are distributed along valley,
therefore, we added a new influence factor “Valley trend”.
In addition, more than a half of landslides were road landslides and also many high
landslides are distributed along roads, and we added this factor.
The other influence factors, proposed by reviewers, are not selected in this manuscript,
the main reasons are:
1. These five factors can reflect the most obvious landslide features of
Jiuzhaigou earthquake based on our detail field investigations and
comprehensive analysis. The factors in reference 11 just analyzes all
influence factors regardless of actual conditions (their results are just obtained
from remote sensing interpretation, they had not a field investigation, our
group had a detail field investigation). Some factors were not necessary, such
as curvature. They use so many influence factors just want to obtain
Susceptibility zone map.
2. PGA main represents the dynamic conditions, the distance to seismogenic
fault and earthquake intensity have already can reflect dynamic conditions, so
we do not discuss it again.
3. The factor “lithology”, (1)- all the landslides induced by Jiuzhaigou
earthquake are small scale landslides, they both occurred at surface of hill. In
this region, rocks at the surface of hill are both weathered regard less of
lithology. (2)- About a half of landslides are road landslides, the main reason
is the road construction, and has little relation with lithology. (3)- many
landslides are quaternary deposits, the large scale geological map cannot
reflect, the result is not accurate. (4)- based on our field investigations, we do
not choose it.
4. The factor “distance to stream”. In earthquake area, the roads are mainly
distributed along rivers, our field investigation shows the most landslides are
concentrated along road, not river, as shown in following Figure. Therefore,
we choose road as influence factor, not distance to stream.
A Road side B River side
Figure 1 A large number of landslides triggered along the road
5. In addition, limited to the length of the manuscript, we only choose obvious
influence factors to discuss, and some factors also have been discussed by the
references 11 by our group. If we also discuss these, we may have some
similar.
C#10 Are there two “4.4.1” in page 11 and page 13 separately?
R#10 Thank you for this comment. Yes, We have corrected it. In addition, we have went
through the whole manuscript carefully to ensure no similar mistakes appear in the
manuscript.
Society Open
