Attenuation of species abundance distributions by sampling
Hideyasu Shimadzu and Ross Darnell
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140219.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140219
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 March 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 March 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140219.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ethan White)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review of "Attenuation of species abundance distributions by sampling" by Hideyasu Shimadzu
and Ross Darnell for Royal Society Open Science. September 2014.
This manuscript addresses how sampling influences the form of the species abundance
distribution. While I have not re-derived all of the mathematics, the derivations seem generally
correct. Overall I find the manuscript to be scientifically sound. That said, there is one major issue
that needs to be addressed, which is that a clearer discussion of the relationship to existing
research is needed. This is particularly important because it is difficult to understand what is
unique to this manuscript vs. the existing literature. In addition, I would strongly encourage the
authors to make a greater effort to communicate with ecologists, who are presumably the target
audience for this paper.
The manuscript would be improved by doing a better job of engaging with the existing literature.
First,the core approach in this paper comes directly from Dewdney (1998). This is mentioned, but
not until page 10 and there it feels a bit like an aside to a critique of an approximation that is
made in Dewdney (1998) after setting up the approach used in the current manuscript. The
progression of ideas and relationship to previous literature would be made clearer by describing
the early paper as the foundation of the derivation when it is originally presented. Second, one of
the major works on sampling and species-abundance distributions (Green & Plotkin 2007) is
barely mentioned in the paper. It is mentioned in the Introduction, where it is implied that there
is something wrong with the study (or at least with other studies that are mentioned at the same
time), and it is never mentioned again. Third, while the initial solutions in the manuscript apply
to the abundance distribution in general, the results presented in all but the first figure only relate
to the probability of a species being absent when it is actually present. As such the vast majority
of the results are simply a different way of looking at the solutions for rarefaction from the 1970s,
which use the same modeling approach as used in this manuscript. As in the case of Dewdney,
the manuscript does make this clear, but my overall impression from the manuscript was that
there is more novelty relative to existing work than there appears to be. By actively referencing
the foundational work as the ideas are being developed the linkages to the existing literature will
be made more clear.
My other major recommendation (and it is just a recommendation as it does not apply to the
soundness of the work, but to its reception), is that the language of the manuscript could be made
more accessible to non-technical readers. The current writing uses a lot of dense technical
language and equations in cases where the ideas could be communicated in simpler and more
straightforward ways. By doing so the manuscript will be made more interesting and accessible
to a broader array of ecologists.
Minor points
I am confused by the equation for t_ki on line 127. The use of the product of
indicator functions (which must be zero or one) seems to contradict the initial definition of t_ki as
"The number of boxes in which species k is not observed" (which must be a number between 0
and 26). A later statement, "t_ki = 1 means that species k is unobserved in all boxes in the set B_i,
i.e. completely absent from the ith sub-sample", supports the mathematical definition, but not the
initial verbal description. This should be clarified.
3
The description of SADs as not proper distributions in 3.2 is correct is some
cases but also frequently incorrect. Much of ecological theory treats the SAD as proper frequency
distributions (see, e.g., Volkov et al. 2003, Harte et al. 2008, many others).
On line 196 it should be made clearer that (d)_k is describing the general notation used in
equation 4 rather than a specific variable.
Typically the SAD is considered to not include zeros. In this study the subsample SADs can
include zeros. This deviation from the traditional view of the pattern should be mentioned.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper focus on a particular sampling issue inherent in many biodiversity analyses: the effect
of sampling on the species abundance distributions. Previous studies have examined this from
different perspectives. Yet, this study can help to better understand such effect on ecological
communities. Despite the fact that the study is based in a particular source of data, the results are
interesting and clear, and and reinforce the view that the effect of sub-sampling is not equal over
all species, and depends on species actual abundances.
Statistical analyses are excellent, and although the paper follow a quite specific structure (it is a
statistical paper), both methodological section and results may be easily followed by a broad
audience. Overall, whilst the study is well-written, I do think that the introduction and discussion
can be improved in several ways (see comments below). Besides cited literature need to be
updated/complemented. Main flaw is related to the use of a single dataset. Ideally the study
should be conducted based on multiple sources, however, this does not mean that the
information it provides is useless, but that potential limitations should be examined accordingly
in the discussion section.
4
Comments section-by-section:
Introduction
Lines 17-20 Ecological research is also about the interaction of species with their environment
('oikos'). Reformulate the first sentence, or perhaps start introduction from line 20.
Line 24 This sentence seems ambiguous. This sentence should be more precise.
Line 28 It is necessary to detail the source of this assertion.
Lines 29-42. Sub-sampling is also recurrent in bird, insect (...) surveys. Given that your proposed
framework would work for either marine and terrestrial surveys, I will not focus solely on a
marine example at this point. There is a large body of literature about this in terrestrial surveys.
Line 42. Any reference?
Line 50 "of detection"?
Line 50 Some recommended readings:
Mao, C.X., and R.K. Colwell. “Estimation of Species Richness: Mixture Models, the Role of Rare
Species, and Inferential Challenges.” Ecology 86, no. 5 (2005): 1143–53.
Gotelli, N.J., and R.K. Colwell. “Quantifying Biodiversity: Procedures and Pitfalls in the
Measurement and Comparison of Species Richness.” Ecology Letters 4, no. 4 (2001): 379–91.
Line 52 Consider to write authors' names, or “In previous studies [5-7] ...”
Line 57 “SADs” instead of “SAD”. Please, check this carefully throughout the text (e.g. line 170).
Lines 61-62 Delete “given the earliest and through, for example”.
Lines 65-68 Is this your view? If so, please state it clearly. Please note that this assertion is crucial
for the justification of your study. If any other authors have said this before, they must be cited.
Line 70 has created?
Line 73 1999 it is more than a decade ago!
Line 78 It is recommended not to make such statement based on a unpublished material. This
sentence should be reformulated and the reference deleted.
Line 80 Please, double-check if this reference is correct in the context of the sentence.
Line 93 Write authors' name before “[16]”
2 Data – 4 The effect of sampling
While this section is very well-written, a schematic illustration of the sub-sampling design could
be helpful for the readership.
5
Line 170 This has already said in the introduction, and it may be not necessary in this section.
Comments on Figures
Please keep consistence between figures:
- In figures 2-5, the boxes around the plots may be removed as in Figure 1.
- Use the same number of decimals in Figure 3 (and throughout the text; see for instance line 251).
It seems a bit weird to read different sub-sampling ratios in the heading and the caption of the
Figure 3.
- Some colored lines (e.g. R=0.2 and R=1) can be blurry in Figures 2 and 5. One alternative may be
to use different types of lines, or to label them.
- Indicate that the x axis is log transformed in the caption (or directly in the axis) of the Figure 4.
Line 266- It is just a suggestion, but for the sake of clarity, I think that the order of the sentence
could be inverted: first, you may show the problem in previous theoretical studies (which should
be also mentioned in the intro.- see my comment above) and then, present your findings (“We
have shown....”).
Line 243 and 273 Write authors name (E.g. Dewdney [11] proposed...)
Line 352 What are the consequences of this? If the sub-sampling ration is based on weights, and if
this was the rule in marine surveys rather than the exception, then, would the impact of your
study be limited? Stated in another way, given that you have used only a single dataset, a cynic
may wonder if r will be an approximation of rw only in this study.
Line 367 “a high”
Line 368 Since it is not a published paper it would be better not to refer to this study in this way
(see my comment above).
378 I do think that your proposed framework can be extended to terrestrial surveys, however,
since you have only used a dataset from marine surveys I am afraid some of the potential readers
may be skeptic about that. Why it your proposed framework generalizable? Why not? Which are
its strengths? Which the limitations? This question may be discussed in here. It may be helpful to
a draw a parallel between your data and others from terrestrial ecosystems.
388-392 Perhaps, restate your findings here in a more explicit way and stress the take home
message of your study. The fact that the sub-sampling effect is uneven among species is often
neglected in the ecological literature, so it may be worthy of being remarked here.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140219)
25-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Shimadzu,
6
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Attenuation of species abundance distributions by
sampling") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper
in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140219.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
7
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I have reviewed a previous version of the ms, and it appears that the authors have succeeded in
improving the ms. The authors were able to respond to most of my earlier concerns, and current
version of the ms is better engaged with the existing literature. While some sections of the ms are
still quite technical for a broad audience, now it is easier to identify the existing gaps in the
knowledge and how these gaps have been addressed in the ms. In particular, I find the new
section (section 5) very helpful in this regard, although the name of this section seems to me a bit
loose.
One of my major concerns was about the use of only one dataset. I aware that authors
accessibility to further datasets was limited, and I do not think indeed that the lack of multiple
datasets blurs the value of the formulated framework. However, one may wonder if the observed
empirical support observed in this study is only the result of using a single dataset. Therefore, I
would encourage the authors to discuss this potential limitation (i.e. the use of only a particular
dataset) in a more explicit way.
Some other minor comments:
I would recommend to label lines in Figure 2 and 5. In they current form, lines can hardly be
distinguished in a B&W printed version, or by people who are colour-blind.
Line 132 contains a different number of individuals
Line 197 not sure it is completely correct, please check it.
Line 61, 301 remove 'little'
Line 392 check the dash
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140219.R1)
04-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Shimadzu:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140219.R1 entitled "Attenuation of species abundance distributions by
sampling" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The
comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 27-Mar-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
8
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
9
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Sincerely,
Dr Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
kpadian@berkeley.edu
Society Open
