The visual gamma response to faces reflects the presence
of sensory evidence and not awareness of the stimulus
Gavin Perry
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150593.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150593
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 November 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 January 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150593.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jaan Aru)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
All clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I had the delight of reviewing this manuscript in another journal. Already the initial version was
good and the author included there all my suggestions. Back then I was negatively surprised that
the manuscript was rejected and I am happy to try to help to publish it here.
I now went again over the manuscript and saw that the author also had done additional analyses
required by the other reviewer. All in all the manuscript is in great shape and I see no reason for
delaying its publication.
Jaan Aru
University of Tartu, Estonia
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The current study investigates by means of MEG and source localization whether gamma
oscillations reflect changes in visibility or sensory evidence. To that end faces are presented at
three different levels: subthreshold, threshold and suprathreshold. The main finding is that
gamma oscillations relate to sensory evidence: they are stronger whenever the stimuli contain
more sensory evidence and regardless of their visibility. In contrast, no differences in gamma
oscillations were observed for stimuli that differ in visibility. The results of this study fair well
with previous intracortical studies showing that gamma oscillations reflect the level of activation
of local cortical circuits and not whether activity reaches awareness as had been previously
hypothesized. The experimental design is simple and clearly described and the analysis for the
3
most part appear to support the conclusion. I have however some suggestions to improve the
quality of the study that I detail below:
Major:
- as the threshold condition did not worked as hoped, i.e., did not produce the same
amount of seen and unseen trials, it could be argued that the absence of a differential effect
between seen and unseen trials relates to poor signal to noise ratio, or even to an imbalance in the
amount of data contrasted. In fact, it is conspicuous that two previous reports with direct cortical
recordings reported a difference for such a condition, which cannot be replicated with non-
invasive recordings. It might be worth exploring the source of this discrepancy as well as the trial
count that entered this analysis (and hopefully controlling for any imbalance that may have
aroused). In addition, it might be worth defining an anatomical ROI (MNI coordinates for FFA)
and present a direct contrast between seen and unseen conditions. As no independent localizer
was used to define FFA, and the data of the threshold and subthreshold conditions where used to
identify FFA it can be argued that this approached may have missed the strongest sources of the
effect, special when comparing across so many voxels.
Minor:
- The author described the usage of at CRT monitor for stimulus presentation inside the MEG.
This is a rather curious setup as it introduces significant noise. How was that dealt with?
- it is mentioned that the images presented per condition differ (page 6), was there any attempt to
counterbalance the image assignation across condition to alleviate neural differences that may
arise due to differences in the physical input?
- as several frequencies were explored for the direct contrast of seen vs. unseen for each of the
experimental conditions, was there any attempt to correct for multiple comparisons across
frequencies?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150593)
10th December 2015
Dear Dr Perry,
The editors assigned to your paper ("The visual gamma response to faces reflects the presence of
sensory evidence and not awareness of the stimulus") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
We typically ask people to submit their revised paper within three weeks, but because the
holidays are soon here, I would be happy for you to submit 6th january 2016. If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150593
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
5
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Essi Viding
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Narayanan Srinivasan):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both the reviewers find the paper interesting. While one reviewer has reviewed this before and is
happy with the paper, the other reviewer has made comments. The author should address all the
comments of the reviewer.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I had the delight of reviewing this manuscript in another journal. Already the initial version was
good and the author included there all my suggestions. Back then I was negatively surprised that
the manuscript was rejected and I am happy to try to help to publish it here.
I now went again over the manuscript and saw that the author also had done additional analyses
required by the other reviewer. All in all the manuscript is in great shape and I see no reason for
delaying its publication.
Jaan Aru
University of Tartu, Estonia
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
6
The current study investigates by means of MEG and source localization whether gamma
oscillations reflect changes in visibility or sensory evidence. To that end faces are presented at
three different levels: subthreshold, threshold and suprathreshold. The main finding is that
gamma oscillations relate to sensory evidence: they are stronger whenever the stimuli contain
more sensory evidence and regardless of their visibility. In contrast, no differences in gamma
oscillations were observed for stimuli that differ in visibility. The results of this study fair well
with previous intracortical studies showing that gamma oscillations reflect the level of activation
of local cortical circuits and not whether activity reaches awareness as had been previously
hypothesized. The experimental design is simple and clearly described and the analysis for the
most part appear to support the conclusion. I have however some suggestions to improve the
quality of the study that I detail below:
Major:
- as the threshold condition did not worked as hoped, i.e., did not produce the same
amount of seen and unseen trials, it could be argued that the absence of a differential effect
between seen and unseen trials relates to poor signal to noise ratio, or even to an imbalance in the
amount of data contrasted. In fact, it is conspicuous that two previous reports with direct cortical
recordings reported a difference for such a condition, which cannot be replicated with non-
invasive recordings. It might be worth exploring the source of this discrepancy as well as the trial
count that entered this analysis (and hopefully controlling for any imbalance that may have
aroused). In addition, it might be worth defining an anatomical ROI (MNI coordinates for FFA)
and present a direct contrast between seen and unseen conditions. As no independent localizer
was used to define FFA, and the data of the threshold and subthreshold conditions where used to
identify FFA it can be argued that this approached may have missed the strongest sources of the
effect, special when comparing across so many voxels.
Minor:
- The author described the usage of at CRT monitor for stimulus presentation inside the MEG.
This is a rather curious setup as it introduces significant noise. How was that dealt with?
- it is mentioned that the images presented per condition differ (page 6), was there any attempt to
counterbalance the image assignation across condition to alleviate neural differences that may
arise due to differences in the physical input?
- as several frequencies were explored for the direct contrast of seen vs. unseen for each of the
experimental conditions, was there any attempt to correct for multiple comparisons across
frequencies?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150593)
See Appendix A.
7
label_version_2
RSOS-150593.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lucia Melloni)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I would like to thank the author for the thorough revision and clarifications.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150593.R1)
2nd February 2016
Dear Dr Perry,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The visual gamma response to faces
reflects the presence of sensory evidence and not awareness of the stimulus" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
8
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime, Dr Matthew Allinson
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org, matthew.allinson@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The paper was sent to Reviewer 2 who is satisfied with the revisions made.
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I would like to thank the author for the thorough revision and clarifications.
ppendix A
ould like to thank both reviewers for taking the time to review the manuscript. I have made a
ber of changes to the text of the manuscript which are detailed below along with my
ponses top reviewer 2's comments (review comments in italics).
ponse
s the threshold condition did not worked as hoped, i.e., did not produce the same amount of
n and unseen trials, it could be argued that the absence of a differential effect between seen
unseen trials relates to poor signal to noise ratio, or even to an imbalance in the amount of
a contrasted. In fact, it is conspicuous that two previous reports with direct cortical
ordings reported a difference for such a condition, which cannot be replicated with non-
asive recordings. It might be worth exploring the source of this discrepancy as well as the
l count that entered this analysis (and hopefully controlling for any imbalance that may have
used).
ree that it's unfortunate that the number of trials in the 'threshold seen' and 'threshold
een' conditions ended up being unbalanced. The only explanation I can think for this
alance is that the different selection of conditions in the two tasks lead to participants
aving differently, such that they used different thresholds for detection of the face in each
k.
wever, this imbalance is less dramatic than the reviewer perhaps thinks - the average number
rials included in each condition (after subject and trial exclusions) were as follows:
Sub Un Thresh Un Thresh S Supra S
ht 86.1 109.7 76.1 88.0
t 86.4 113.7 71.7 88.7
te the the different numbers for the right and left hemisphere analyses reflect the fact that
e subjects only had a response in one hemisphere.)
us the condition with the least number of trials ('threshold seen') still had, on average, 80% of
number of trials of the subthreshold and suprathreshold conditions.
reduced number of trials should effect both comparisons involving the 'threshold seen'
dition, and this is reflected in the standard deviation of within-subject differences for each
ed comparison:
Thresh Un vs Sub Un Thresh S vs Thresh Un Supra S vs Thresh S
ht 1.7897 3.7145 3.6525
t 2.1145 2.6896 2.8572
an be seen from this that the standard deviations of the 'threshold unseen vs seen' and the
prathreshold vs threshold' contrasts were virtually identical and therefore these comparisons
ld have had approximately the same statistical power. Therefore, the study should have had
ghly the same likelihood to find effects of equal size in both of these comparisons.
ve performed some post-hoc power calculations and added some further text to address this
e:
st-hoc power calculations suggest that the study had statistical power of 0.8 to show
erences in the 'threshold seen' vs 'threshold unseen' contrast of 1.99% and 2.97% in the left
right hemisphere respectively (these correspond to effect sizes of d = 0.74 and d = 0.81).
nversely, the largest difference between conditions we found in any of our three planned
parisons were 2.56% and 2.75% in the left and right hemispheres respectively (in both cases
he 'threshold seen' vs 'suprathreshold seen' contrast). Post-hoc power calculations suggest
study had power of 0.96 and 0.73 (in the left and right hemispheres respectively) to find
erences of this size in the 'threshold seen' vs 'threshold unseen' contrast. Thus, we had
icient power to find large effects of perceptual awareness but may have lacked power to find
re subtle differences between the 'threshold seen' and 'threshold unseen' conditions
rticularly in the right hemisphere). This suggests that while we cannot conclude that
erences in gamma amplitude due to awareness do not exist, if they do exist they are likely to
small relative to the differences found due to changes in sensory evidence.”
h respect to comparisons to previous results, I'm not sure which are the two previous reports
reviewer is referring to. The two papers that I'm aware of that used intracranial recoridngs to
ress this issue were Aru et al. (2012) - whose conclusions are consistent with this study -
Fisch et al. (2009) whose conclusions are inconsistent with this study, but who used a
erent experimental paradigm (backward masking) which may explain their different findings. If
reviewer is aware of other studies then I would be grateful for the references.
ally, in considering the imbalance of response in the threshold condition, I have realised that
re is a further issue that was not previously addressed in the Dsicussion. Although not
cifically requested to address this point, in the interests of openness I have added the
owing text to the Discussion:
ne further limitation of the study design is that, as we did not include separate behavioural
bes of psychophysical performance and awareness, we cannot dissociate between participants'
avioural thresholds for responding and the underlying perceptual thresholds for awareness. It
uld be noted that some participants appeared to use different thresholds for detection
ween the initial testing session and the MEG recording session. In the latter session, many
ticipants showed a bias in the threshold condition to reporting the face as unseen despite
se noise in that condition being set at a level that should have led participants to see the
e approximately 50% of the time based on responses in the first session. This suggests that at
t some of the participants varied their behavioural thresholds for face detection between
sions, indicating that these thresholds were not fixed but varied depending on context. It is
clear if this reflects changes in the criteria for awareness or changes in the criteria for
ponding, and to the extent that the criteria may vary separately, the results of this study only
tain to the former. Only more sophisticated study designs in which behavioural thresholds and
esholds to awareness can be probed separately can elucidate these potential difficulties.”
ddition, it might be worth defining an anatomical ROI (MNI coordinates for FFA) and present
rect contrast between seen and unseen conditions. As no independent localizer was used to
ne FFA, and the data of the threshold and subthreshold conditions where used to identify
A it can be argued that this approached may have missed the strongest sources of the effect,
cial when comparing across so many voxels.
the Cardiff MEG lab we are generally against the use of anatomical ROIs for MEG source
lysis. The reason is that, while the volumetric images produce by source analysis have
orm voxel resolution, the true resolution of the image is not only much lower than this, but is
omogeneous across the volume.
t the true resolution is lower then the voxel resolution can be seen intuitively by the fact
t the volumetric images contain many thousands of voxels while the MEG system has only 275
sors. The volumetric images cannot contain more independent pieces of information than
re are sensors, and thus must inherently be highly smooth.
reover, it has been demonstrated (Barnes et al., 2004, Human Brain Mapping) that the
mformer technique used for source reconstruction in this study produces images in which
othness is inhomogenous, and is a function of SNR such that locations in the volume with the
atest SNR have the greatest spatial resolution. The underlying model of the beamformer is
ed on signals at the sensor-level being generated by a series of point sources (equivalent
rent dipoles) at the source-level, and thus these volumetric images can be interpreted as
ng a series of smoothed point sources, were the level of smoothing is inversely proportional to
SNR of the source.
us we favour selecting locations of interest based on image peaks, as these are not only the
ations with the best SNR but also the locations most likely to correspond to the true source
in. By contrast, voxels from an anatomical ROI may contain smoothed signal from sources at
er locations, rather than signal from sources within the ROI itself.
this reason, while the reviewer's suggestion for an ROI is sensible on the face of it, I do not
elieve it would give accurate results.
he author described the usage of at CRT monitor for stimulus presentation inside the MEG.
s is a rather curious setup as it introduces significant noise. How was that dealt with?
ve now amended the following text in the Methods section (p. 5, line 82) to clarify: “The
nitor was positioned outside the magnetically-shielded room and viewed through an aperture
he wall. The viewing distance was 2.1 m, with stimulus images subtending 4.69° x 6.25° of
ual angle.”
is mentioned that the images presented per condition differ (page 6), was there any attempt
counterbalance the image assignation across condition to alleviate neural differences that may
e due to differences in the physical input?
ve now added the following text to p. 3 (line 61) to clarify: “For each participant the stimuli
e randomly assigned into four groups of 10, so that a different set of stimuli were used in
h session/condition for each run of the experiment (see below).”
relevant text on p. 5 (line 103) has also been amended: “The three remaining sets of 10 face
uli not used in the previous session were each assigned to one of the three conditions, with
h stimulus being presented in only a single condition per participant (this was done to prevent
reased familiarity with faces presented in the suprathreshold condition from enhancing
ection rates in the other two conditions as the experiment progressed).”
s several frequencies were explored for the direct contrast of seen vs. unseen for each of the
erimental conditions, was there any attempt to correct for multiple comparisons across
uencies?
s was performed as an exploratory analysis to see if I had missed any effects that might
ome apparent following whole-brain volumetric analyses at different sub-bands of the gamma
uency range. As I wanted to be sure we hadn't missed any possible effects of interest I took
beral approach to statistical testing by not correcting for multiple comparisons across
uency (and accepted the concomitant risk of increased Type I error). Whether or or not I
justified in doing this is moot, as no significant effects were found even
hout correction.
Society Open
