Reproductive success in wild and hatchery male coho
salmon
Bryan D. Neff, Shawn R. Garner, Ian A. Fleming and Mart R. Gross
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150161.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150161
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 June 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 July 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150161.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Claus Wedekind)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Neff and colleagues genotyped alevins that hade been preserved from previous experiments on
reproductive behavior of hatchery and wild male coho salmon. Their new analyses allowed
comparing the actual reproductive success with behavioral observations and to quantify
paternity within spawning hierarchies of males. The authors found in general a good agreement
between behavioral observation and actual reproductive success, e.g. alpha males within
spawning hierarchies achieved highest reproductive success, while the reproductive success of
the 2nd and 3rd males in the hierarchies was about equal. Hatchery males were less successful
than wild males (as had been concluded previously from behavioral data). The new genetic
analyses revealed that hatchery males were also less successful than wild males when controlling
for the effects of hierarchy position. These are important findings that will surely stimulate
further research. I have only few comments:
1) The Abstract and the Introduction promise too much. Abstract, line 15: “… as a result of
both inferior performance in pre-spawn competition and post-spawning processes …”;
Introduction, line 54: “… (2) identifying the causative factors governing paternity …”; and
Introduction, line 56: “…. Allow the first evaluation of both pre-spawn and post-spawn
processes…”. Without further data, a study like the present one cannot allow discriminating
between effects of pre-spawn and post-spawning processes, i.e. the causative factors governing
paternity must remain unclear. This is all well treated in the Discussion, but I believe it is not
useful to raise the expectancies too high in Abstract and Introduction.
2) The difference in paternity success of hatchery and wild males per hierarchy position is a
main finding of the paper and should be emphasized in a figure, e.g. a second panel of Fig. 1.
3) I would much prefer standard deviations or confidence intervals over standard errors
because the latter are not very helpful (and sometimes misleading) when comparing groups of
different sample sizes.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript re-visits an important experiment on salmonid mating behaviour in the context
of hatchery and wild comparisons to add to our understanding of hatchery enhancement
programs. The main finding of this study is that hatchery males have lower reproductive success
when competing with wild males. It also quantifies the distribution of reproductive success
among males in matings that involve different numbers of competitors.
The new data in presented by this work certainly enhance our understanding of salmonid mating
systems. From a reproductive success standpoint, the findings of this study are indeed
interesting, particularly the fact that the alpha male in a hierarchy sires a large portion of the
offspring, regardless of hierarchy size. This result is important in the context of fundamental
understanding the components of mating behaviour that influence the distribution of
reproductive success among males in a population.
I have some concerns associated with the clarity of the manuscript and the presentation of the
results.
My main issue is that its focus is not clear. Is the main point of the study determining the
distribution of reproductive success in spawning hierarchies or comparing hatchery and wild
fish? I appreciate that in reality both of these things happen at the same time, but it might be
helpful for the reader if the manuscript focused on one or the other as the main point of the
study. For example, the Introduction begins with statements about the possibility that hatchery
fish may not support wild populations in the way they are intended to, but the hatchery-wild
comparison is the last objective of the study and is not the focus of the Discussion.
Second, the complete data set and the data set in the main paper tell different stories. While the
discrepancy can be attributed to sampling bias with the nests that were sampled for paternity, it
does make reading the Results and Discussion a bit challenging for the reader. For example, the
data reported in Table 2 of the main paper suggest that hatchery males participate equally or
slightly more than wild males in spawning (e.g., hatchery males were the first male in 11 of the 21
observed spawning hierarchies), but the reproductive success summary indicates that wild males
participated in more spawnings than hatchery males. Without going through the supplementary
data in detail and counting the number of spawnings from the big table therein, the reader is left
questioning how it is that wild males participated in 30% more spawnings than hatchery males
given the data that are immediately available to them. Resolving this apparent discrepancy
would require re-organization of the manuscript such that it is completely obvious to the reader
that only a subset of data are discussed for the paternity analyses, while the reproductive success
data extrapolates these to a larger data set. The authors should summarize the larger data set
somewhere in the main document to avoid confusing the reader with sets of contradictory
results.
Third, I think that the authors need to be cautious about extrapolating their results given the
relatively small sample size and the possible influence of one or two data points. I am extremely
sympathetic to the fact that these types of experiments are very difficult to undertake, and that
accomplishing what the authors have done here is remarkable given that the salmonid system is
not terribly amenable to experimental manipulation. However, the estimates for paternity for
comparing hatchery and wild fish are based on relatively few comparisons. For instance, in the 2-
male hierarchies the sample sizes are 4 and 3 for hatchery and wild fish, respectively, and the
influence hatchery estimate is influenced by one spawning with very low paternity for the alpha
male. I do not disagree with the overall conclusion of the study, but I do think that assigning
definite values to without error to estimate reproductive success based on few nests requires
some qualification during the discussion of the results.
Minor comments
While this might be overly detailed, I think it might be important for the authors to outline how
they determined the hierarchies. For example, the reader may be left wondering what a 2-male
hierarchy means at the time of spawning- is there one male on each side of the female, or are they
stacked up on one side? The arrangement of the males during spawning can have an influence on
the proximity of sperm and eggs during gamete release, such that the two males can be
4
effectively considered ‘tied’ in terms of their position during spawning. As I am sure the authors
are aware, physical proximity is extremely important in this system for fast fertilization.
It is not clear in general whether a 1-male hierarchy is included in the hierarchies being
discussed. This does not seem like a hierarchy, given that there are no competitors in these cases.
I find using the word ‘hierarchy’ to describe spawning events to be a bit awkward. Perhaps there
is a subtlety here I have missed, but I think the wording can be improved here so that it is clear
for the reader.
Lines 2-3. This statement might require some qualification. Perhaps acknowledge the relatively
large body of literature dedicated to this- one could argue that there are many different studies
that outline various ways in which hatchery fish do not perform as well as wild fish.
Line 13. The end of this sentence could imply that hatchery males suffer lower fitness at the
alevin stage, which I do not think is what the authors are trying to say. Perhaps reword this
sentence.
Lines 14-17. It might be helpful for the reader if this sentence were re-organized to make the point
that the novel finding of this study is the analysis of paternity.
Lines 160-162. I assume these numbers are from hierarchies of 2 or 3 males? Can the errors
around these numbers be added?
Lines 160-162. Reporting this in % lower may be misleading. Perhaps just report the numbers
with their errors.
Line 171. Does the statement ‘wild males participated in 30% more spawning hierarchies’ simply
mean that they participated in more spawnings? Or more spawnings that involved more than one
male?
Line 173-174. The end of this sentence is awkward. Perhaps re-word to ‘number of spawnings in
the alpha position’?
Line 213. Please clarify what is meant by ‘less dominant’.
Lines 221-224. I don’t see how this manuscript represents data from spawning in the wild. Please
re-word to acknowledge that the data here are from experiments.
Lines 237-241. Given the data, I think that these statements might be a bit too alarmist. When
spawning alone, hatchery males do not fail to release sperm and fertilize eggs. Perhaps there is
something that I’ve missed here in terms of the proportion of eggs fertilized by different types of
males. As far as interbreeding and its effects, one could argue that if hatchery rearing can have
such a profound effect over a generation, then perhaps the same is true if fish spend their entire
lives in the wild. I don’t completely disagree with the authors here, but I do think that these
statements require a bit of qualification given the data in presented in this paper.
Line 246. I don’t think the authors can claim this is a post-spawning phenomenon given that they
present evidence that hatchery fish sperm is not inferior to that of wild fish. Their best
explanation is that hatchery fish likely do not time sperm release appropriately, which is a pre-
spawning component.
Table 2. In the 2-male hierarchies, nest ID 12, is it possible that the males spawned on opposite
sides of the female? How was this quantified in the hierarchical designation?
Figure 1. It might be helpful if this figure also included a breakdown of how hatchery and wild
fish do when they are in the different hierarchical positions to allow a nice visual representation
of the difference between the two.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
5
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes (supporting data provided)
Yes, supp data adequate and clear)
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Review of Neff et al. 2015
The manuscript “Reproductive success in wild and hatchery male coho salmon” was very well
written, and represents an important contribution to the literature on the effects of artificial
reproduction and captive rearing on fitness in the wild, particularly as it pertains to salmonids,
where the technology is used quite a bit. Noteworthy contributions of this manuscript include a)
further testing of earlier published estimates of differential reproductive success of wild and
hatchery salmon based solely on observational data, b) direct information on the effect of
hierarchy position on reproductive success, c) information on the effect of male size (overall and
within a hierarchy position) on reproductive success, and d) information on the overall relative
reproductive success of hatchery vs wild salmon. The manuscript also provides information and
analyses that provides some insight into the mechanisms behind reduced reproductive success in
hatchery salmon, which is uncommon in the general literature, important, and in this regard,
cutting edge research. Some of the text reading the elucidation of mechanism as pre- or post-
reproductive (a convenient packing of potential mechanisms), may be somewhat problematic, or
at the least, in need of some further explanation/discussion for the reader. This is dealt with in
the comments below.
Line 16 and elsewhere in manuscript. The authors indicate that like offspring survival, female
choice (presumably female mate choice) is a post-spawning phenomenon. To some of your
readers, this may seem confusing, because it would at first seem that female mate choice would
either occur before or right at the time of spawning, not after spawning. Please change or
provide a rationale for considering this a post-spawning process.
Line 26. Consider changing “…might result from…” to “…may, in large part, result from…”. As
the authors discuss below, fitness reductions of hatchery salmon relative to wild salmon very
likely reflect the cumulative effect of many things with small to large impacts, including reduced
offspring survival from fertilization to the time of sampling, etc., etc..
Line 40. Is “position in the dominance hierarchies” supposed to be an example of “post-spawn
completion” as the positioning of this text in this sentence suggests, because it doesn’t seem to be
something that follows spawning. If this is supposed to be “pre-spawn” then consider placing it
as an example after the text “…in both pre-spawn” .
Line 41. Or survival at later stages, depending on when paternity is assessed (here you are
speaking in general terms).
Line 72. Consider providing here, in the manuscript (not in the supplementary material),
additional details (two or three sentences) about the history of the “hatchery salmon” used here.
Were these adults captured at the gateway, held for a few weeks to months, then used in your
experiment, or were these fish artificially produced in the hatchery and then reared from egg to
adulthood in the hatchery and then used in your experiment, or were these multigenerational
hatchery salmon?
Line 81. Here, the authors are discussing wild fish from Oyster River, and then in brackets list 10
wild males and 10 hatchery males). This may, at first, confuse your reader. Consider revising.
6
Line 96. Here, you talk about “parentage” before even introducing the offspring (this is done a
few sentences down). Consider “Parentage of alevins “ obtained from a subset of observed nests
was estimated using…”
Line 107. This explanation may be confusing to some readers, as you call the parentage method
used “exclusion”, then indicate that a given candidate parent was considered as a true parent if it
matched the parent at all loci. Where does to the term “exclusion” come from in this context?
The Exclusion approach is all about (in an ideal world) excluding all candidate parents that
exhibit one or more mismatches with a particular offspring, leaving one (or two) candidate
parents exhibiting no mismatches with said offspring.
Line 110. Am not sure the reader will get the significance of the behavioural data on the
parentage methodology. Consider mentioning the reduced pool of candidate parents. Also, if
only 2 or 3 “possible” parental pairs in each “experiment” or nest, but multiple offspring-
candidate parent groups (dozens) experiment wide, then some offspring parental-pair matches
due to chance alone can be expected. Consider quantifying and providing this to the reader.
Line 126. Where do the “216 hierarchies” come from? Given the data presented, is not readily
apparent. Consider adding a sentence or two to explain.
Line 150. It is not too surprising that when hierarchy size = 1, nearly all offspring assigned to a
single parent in the hierarchy.
Line 168. Consider changing “The complete spawning hierarchy participation data…” to “…The
complete spawning hierarchy participation data (based on earlier visual observations) and …”
Line 181. The interaction can be either statistically significant or not; marginally non-significant is
non-significant. Additionally, given these results, stating that large body mass leads to “greater
increase in reproductive success” is incorrect. Finally, did you mean to indicate that it lead to a
greater increase or an increase? If the former, greater than what else that was also leading to a
lesser increase?
Line 191. If a given male is alone in a given hierarchy (a hierarchy of 1), it has to achieve nearly
100% paternity.
Line 202. Again, is “female choice” a post-reproductive phenomenon? I can see some scope for
this in organisms with internal fertilization, but with external fertilization with little subsequent
care of young, not so much. If the authors disagree, they should at least explain this a bit in the
manuscript because it may not be apparent to the general Royal Society readership.
Lines 202-209. I suspect that many readers understanding of sperm competition would include
knowledge of interaction between sperm from different males, events following the release of
milt (post-reproductive, or post-spawning), at or shortly after spawning. However, it can also
include reproductive behaviour of the male that favours fertilization success of his sperm (this is
alluded to in lines 211-212). Especially given the discussion of sperm competition in the context
of post-reproductive success, perhaps the authors could include a sentence or two about exactly
what they mean by sperm competition.
Lines 221 to 224. In lines 209 to 211, the authors state “Instead, hatchery fish might nave low
paternity because they are slower than wild males to release sperm or are more likely to be
excluded from preferred spawning positions immediately adjacent to females, as both
characteristics have been linked to low success in sperm competition. Given the literature on this
subject, the literature referenced in this document, and the findings presented in this paper, this,
as the authors suggest, seem like a quite plausible explanation. However, in this sentence (see,
specifically, line 222), the authors state “…our data represent the first field evidence that hatchery
males have inferior performance after spawning in the wild…”. The exact positioning relative to
females, and speed of release of milt, would seem to be events that would be best described as
“pre-spawning” or “at spawning”, not “post-spawning”. There is no question that the results
presented here provide some potentially important insight as to what the most likely mechanisms
are behind reduced reproductive success of salmon hatchery relative to wild salmon, but I don’t
think the convenient packaging of everything into “post-spawning” is warranted.
Table 2, line 432. Consider changing “…nest ID, experimental stream section, female…” to
“…nest ID, experimental stream section (Exp), female…”
Figure 2. Change “marginally non-significant difference”, to indicate that he difference was not
significant.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150161)
12-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Garner,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Reproductive success in wild and hatchery male coho
salmon") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 05-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
8
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150161)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150161.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
9
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have clearly addressed all comments by the reviewers. I have no further issues with
this manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150161.R1)
13-Jul-2015
Dear Dr Garner,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Reproductive success in wild and
hatchery male coho salmon" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
nk you for considering our revised manuscript for publication. Below please find the
iewers’ comments, with our responses in italics.
iewers' Comments to Author:
iewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
f and colleagues genotyped alevins that had been preserved from previous experiments on
roductive behavior of hatchery and wild male coho salmon. Their new analyses allowed
paring the actual reproductive success with behavioral observations and to quantify paternity
hin spawning hierarchies of males. The authors found in general a good agreement between
avioral observation and actual reproductive success, e.g. alpha males within spawning
rarchies achieved highest reproductive success, while the reproductive success of the 2nd and
males in the hierarchies was about equal. Hatchery males were less successful than wild
es (as had been concluded previously from behavioral data). The new genetic analyses
ealed that hatchery males were also less successful than wild males when controlling for the
cts of hierarchy position. These are important findings that will surely stimulate further
earch. I have only few comments:
The Abstract and the Introduction promise too much. Abstract, line 15: “… as a result of both
rior performance in pre-spawn competition and post-spawning processes …”; Introduction,
54: “… (2) identifying the causative factors governing paternity …”; and Introduction, line
“…. Allow the first evaluation of both pre-spawn and post-spawn processes…”. Without
her data, a study like the present one cannot allow discriminating between effects of pre-
wn and post-spawning processes, i.e. the causative factors governing paternity must remain
lear. This is all well treated in the Discussion, but I believe it is not useful to raise the
ectancies too high in Abstract and Introduction.
We have removed the statements indicated by the reviewer, and reworded these sections
to remove the emphasis on distinguishing between pre-spawning and post-spawning
processes.
The difference in paternity success of hatchery and wild males per hierarchy position is a main
ing of the paper and should be emphasized in a figure, e.g. a second panel of Fig. 1.
We agree that this is an important finding of our paper, and have moved these data from
the text to a second panel of Fig. 1.
would much prefer standard deviations or confidence intervals over standard errors because
latter are not very helpful (and sometimes misleading) when comparing groups of different
ple sizes.
We have replaced standard errors with standard deviations throughout the text and
figures.
iewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
iew of Neff et al. 2015
manuscript “Reproductive success in wild and hatchery male coho salmon” was very well
tten, and represents an important contribution to the literature on the effects of artificial
roduction and captive rearing on fitness in the wild, particularly as it pertains to salmonids,
ere the technology is used quite a bit. Noteworthy contributions of this manuscript include a)
her testing of earlier published estimates of differential reproductive success of wild and
chery salmon based solely on observational data, b) direct information on the effect of
rarchy position on reproductive success, c) information on the effect of male size (overall and
hin a hierarchy position) on reproductive success, and d) information on the overall relative
roductive success of hatchery vs wild salmon. The manuscript also provides information and
lyses that provides some insight into the mechanisms behind reduced reproductive success in
chery salmon, which is uncommon in the general literature, important, and in this regard,
ing edge research. Some of the text reading the elucidation of mechanism as pre- or post-
roductive (a convenient packing of potential mechanisms), may be somewhat problematic, or
he least, in need of some further explanation/discussion for the reader. This is dealt with in
comments below.
e 16 and elsewhere in manuscript. The authors indicate that like offspring survival, female
ice (presumably female mate choice) is a post-spawning phenomenon. To some of your
ders, this may seem confusing, because it would at first seem that female mate choice would
er occur before or right at the time of spawning, not after spawning. Please change or
vide a rationale for considering this a post-spawning process.
We have removed reference to post-spawning processes throughout the manuscript to
address these concerns.
e 26. Consider changing “…might result from…” to “…may, in large part, result from…”.
the authors discuss below, fitness reductions of hatchery salmon relative to wild salmon very
ly reflect the cumulative effect of many things with small to large impacts, including reduced
pring survival from fertilization to the time of sampling, etc., etc..
Done.
e 40. Is “position in the dominance hierarchies” supposed to be an example of “post-spawn
pletion” as the positioning of this text in this sentence suggests, because it doesn’t seem to
something that follows spawning. If this is supposed to be “pre-spawn” then consider placing
s an example after the text “…in both pre-spawn”.
We have reworded this point as suggested to make it clear that we are referring to: “pre-
spawning competition for positions in dominance hierarchies.” (L41-42).
e 41. Or survival at later stages, depending on when paternity is assessed (here you are
aking in general terms).
We now refer to a male’s “offspring” (L44) rather than “embryos” to encompass
multiple developmental stages.
e 72. Consider providing here, in the manuscript (not in the supplementary material),
itional details (two or three sentences) about the history of the “hatchery salmon” used here.
re these adults captured at the gateway, held for a few weeks to months, then used in your
eriment, or were these fish artificially produced in the hatchery and then reared from egg to
lthood in the hatchery and then used in your experiment, or were these multigenerational
chery salmon?
We have added additional detail to clarify the history of the salmon used in our study:
“The hatchery fish used in our study were thus bred in the hatchery and released into the
river as smolts, whereas the wild fish had spent their whole lives in the wild. Both
hatchery and wild salmon were captured in their home river when the adults returned
from the ocean to breed.”(L73-76)
e 81. Here, the authors are discussing wild fish from Oyster River, and then in brackets list
wild males and 10 hatchery males). This may, at first, confuse your reader. Consider
ising.
To avoid confusion, we have revised this point to clarify the origin of both hatchery and
wild fish: “All hatchery fish came from the Quinsam River, with four sections of the
spawning channel receiving wild fish from the Oyster River (10 wild males, 10 hatchery
males, 10 wild females, 10 hatchery females; N = 40 fish per section) and one section
receiving its wild fish from Black Creek (10 wild males, 10 hatchery males, 8 wild
females, 8 hatchery females; N = 36 fish; fewer females were used in this trial because
the availability of Black Creek females was limited).”(L82-86)
e 96. Here, you talk about “parentage” before even introducing the offspring (this is done a
sentences down). Consider “Parentage of alevins “ obtained from a subset of observed nests
estimated using…”
We now add a sentence before this point indicating the origin of the alevins: “In March,
just prior to fry emergence, the water level in the stream channel was reduced and
alevins were collected from a subset of the observed nest sites. Parentage of alevins was
then calculated using genetic markers.” (L101-103).
e 107. This explanation may be confusing to some readers, as you call the parentage method
d “exclusion”, then indicate that a given candidate parent was considered as a true parent if it
ched the parent at all loci. Where does to the term “exclusion” come from in this context?
Exclusion approach is all about (in an ideal world) excluding all candidate parents that
ibit one or more mismatches with a particular offspring, leaving one (or two) candidate
ents exhibiting no mismatches with said offspring.
We no longer refer to this approach as exclusion, instead simply stating that “Paternity
within nests was resolved by assigning each alevin to a putative father if it was a genetic
match to that male and the putative mother at all markers.” (L113-114)
e 110. Am not sure the reader will get the significance of the behavioural data on the
entage methodology. Consider mentioning the reduced pool of candidate parents. Also, if
y 2 or 3 “possible” parental pairs in each “experiment” or nest, but multiple offspring-
didate parent groups (dozens) experiment wide, then some offspring parental-pair matches
to chance alone can be expected. Consider quantifying and providing this to the reader.
To better indicate the significance of the behavioural data for our parentage
methodology, we now note that this approach results in a reduced pool of candidate
parents for each nest, and quantify the likelihood that a random alevin would be a
genetic match for a parental pair.
“This parentage approach takes advantage of the high prior probability that the
candidate parents were identified from the behavioural data (i.e. each nest had a reduced
pool of candidate parents) [41]. Based on the allele frequencies observed in the putative
parents, this approach had an 89.8% ± 11.3% (mean ± SD) likelihood of excluding
unrelated alevins for each putative parental pair (i.e. there was only a 10.2% chance that
an unrelated alevin would genetically match a parental pair by chance)” (L114-119).
e 126. Where do the “216 hierarchies” come from? Given the data presented, is not readily
arent. Consider adding a sentence or two to explain.
We have moved this information to the description of the behavioural observations and
expanded its description: “In total, we observed females spawning at 216 nests. The
spawning hierarchies recorded at those nests included 1 to 7 males. Males in the
spawning hierarchy were scored as 1st (closest behind female), 2nd or 3rd male (most
distal from the female). Few spawning hierarchies had 4 or more males (29 of 216
hierarchies).” (L96-99).
e 150. It is not too surprising that when hierarchy size = 1, nearly all offspring assigned to a
gle parent in the hierarchy.
We agree that this result is unsurprising. It does provide a useful validation of our
experimental approach (i.e. that hierarchies were accurately observed and that there
were no problems with the genetic parentage assignment).
e 168. Consider changing “The complete spawning hierarchy participation data…” to
The complete spawning hierarchy participation data (based on earlier visual observations)
…”
We have re-ordered the results section such that the spawning hierarchy participation
data are now in a “Behavioural observations” sub-section, and believe that this
additional clarification is now unnecessary.
e 181. The interaction can be either statistically significant or not; marginally non-significant
non-significant. Additionally, given these results, stating that large body mass leads to
eater increase in reproductive success” is incorrect. Finally, did you mean to indicate that it
d to a greater increase or an increase? If the former, greater than what else that was also
ding to a lesser increase?
For simplicity we now state that the interaction was not significant and do not interpret
the trend, as it does not affect the overall conclusions of our study.
e 191. If a given male is alone in a given hierarchy (a hierarchy of 1), it has to achieve nearly
% paternity.
We agree that this observation is unsurprising, but is relevant to emphasize the
importance of pre-spawning competition among males on paternity.
e 202. Again, is “female choice” a post-reproductive phenomenon? I can see some scope for
in organisms with internal fertilization, but with external fertilization with little subsequent
e of young, not so much. If the authors disagree, they should at least explain this a bit in the
nuscript because it may not be apparent to the general Royal Society readership.
We have removed reference to post-spawning processes throughout the manuscript to
address this concern.
es 202-209. I suspect that many readers understanding of sperm competition would include
wledge of interaction between sperm from different males, events following the release of
t (post-reproductive, or post-spawning), at or shortly after spawning. However, it can also
ude reproductive behaviour of the male that favours fertilization success of his sperm (this is
ded to in lines 211-212). Especially given the discussion of sperm competition in the context
post-reproductive success, perhaps the authors could include a sentence or two about exactly
at they mean by sperm competition.
We have removed reference to post-spawning success, and now simply identify potential
processes that could contribute to paternity differences (e.g. sperm quality, timing and
position of release).
es 221 to 224. In lines 209 to 211, the authors state “Instead, hatchery fish might nave low
ernity because they are slower than wild males to release sperm or are more likely to be
luded from preferred spawning positions immediately adjacent to females, as both
racteristics have been linked to low success in sperm competition. Given the literature on this
ject, the literature referenced in this document, and the findings presented in this paper, this,
he authors suggest, seem like a quite plausible explanation. However, in this sentence (see,
cifically, line 222), the authors state “…our data represent the first field evidence that
chery males have inferior performance after spawning in the wild…”. The exact positioning
tive to females, and speed of release of milt, would seem to be events that would be best
cribed as “pre-spawning” or “at spawning”, not “post-spawning”. There is no question that
results presented here provide some potentially important insight as to what the most likely
chanisms are behind reduced reproductive success of salmon hatchery relative to wild salmon,
I don’t think the convenient packaging of everything into “post-spawning” is warranted.
We agree that “post-spawning” oversimplifies the processes we describe, and have
removed reference to this term throughout the manuscript.
le 2, line 432. Consider changing “…nest ID, experimental stream section, female…” to
nest ID, experimental stream section (Exp), female…”
Done.
ure 2. Change “marginally non-significant difference”, to indicate that he difference was not
nificant.
We now note simply that “There was no significant difference in the slopes of these
lines.” (L445)
iewer: 3
mments to the Author(s)
s manuscript re-visits an important experiment on salmonid mating behaviour in the context
hatchery and wild comparisons to add to our understanding of hatchery enhancement
grams. The main finding of this study is that hatchery males have lower reproductive success
en competing with wild males. It also quantifies the distribution of reproductive success
ong males in matings that involve different numbers of competitors.
new data in presented by this work certainly enhance our understanding of salmonid mating
tems. From a reproductive success standpoint, the findings of this study are indeed
resting, particularly the fact that the alpha male in a hierarchy sires a large portion of the
pring, regardless of hierarchy size. This result is important in the context of fundamental
erstanding the components of mating behaviour that influence the distribution of
roductive success among males in a population.
ave some concerns associated with the clarity of the manuscript and the presentation of the
ults.
main issue is that its focus is not clear. Is the main point of the study determining the
ribution of reproductive success in spawning hierarchies or comparing hatchery and wild
? I appreciate that in reality both of these things happen at the same time, but it might be
pful for the reader if the manuscript focused on one or the other as the main point of the study.
example, the Introduction begins with statements about the possibility that hatchery fish may
support wild populations in the way they are intended to, but the hatchery-wild comparison is
last objective of the study and is not the focus of the Discussion.
To provide a clearer focus, we have altered the discussion so that 3 of the 4 paragraphs
are clearly centered on hatchery-wild comparisons and have reduced our emphasis on
general factors influencing reproductive success in salmonids.
ond, the complete data set and the data set in the main paper tell different stories. While the
crepancy can be attributed to sampling bias with the nests that were sampled for paternity, it
s make reading the Results and Discussion a bit challenging for the reader. For example, the
a reported in Table 2 of the main paper suggest that hatchery males participate equally or
htly more than wild males in spawning (e.g., hatchery males were the first male in 11 of the
observed spawning hierarchies), but the reproductive success summary indicates that wild
es participated in more spawnings than hatchery males. Without going through the
plementary data in detail and counting the number of spawnings from the big table therein,
reader is left questioning how it is that wild males participated in 30% more spawnings than
chery males given the data that are immediately available to them. Resolving this apparent
crepancy would require re-organization of the manuscript such that it is completely obvious to
reader that only a subset of data are discussed for the paternity analyses, while the
roductive success data extrapolates these to a larger data set. The authors should summarize
larger data set somewhere in the main document to avoid confusing the reader with sets of
tradictory results.
We have re-organized the manuscript to address this confusion. We better highlight that
the paternity data is based on a subset of the nests in the methods, and have re-ordered
the results to present the full behavioural data first, followed by the parentage analysis
that uses a subset of those nests. This structure avoids presenting the subset first, so the
full data now no longer reads as potentially contradictory.
rd, I think that the authors need to be cautious about extrapolating their results given the
tively small sample size and the possible influence of one or two data points. I am extremely
pathetic to the fact that these types of experiments are very difficult to undertake, and that
omplishing what the authors have done here is remarkable given that the salmonid system is
terribly amenable to experimental manipulation. However, the estimates for paternity for
paring hatchery and wild fish are based on relatively few comparisons. For instance, in the
ale hierarchies the sample sizes are 4 and 3 for hatchery and wild fish, respectively, and the
uence hatchery estimate is influenced by one spawning with very low paternity for the alpha
e. I do not disagree with the overall conclusion of the study, but I do think that assigning
inite values to without error to estimate reproductive success based on few nests requires
e qualification during the discussion of the results.
To better express the variation in our reproductive success estimates, we now present the
mean proportions of alevins sired by males of each type as well as the standard
deviations (L187-188). In the discussion we more cautiously note that the magnitude of
the effect has been estimated: “we now estimate that hatchery males actually sired only
51% as many alevins as wild males” (L239-240).
nor comments
ile this might be overly detailed, I think it might be important for the authors to outline how
y determined the hierarchies. For example, the reader may be left wondering what a 2-male
rarchy means at the time of spawning- is there one male on each side of the female, or are
y stacked up on one side? The arrangement of the males during spawning can have an
uence on the proximity of sperm and eggs during gamete release, such that the two males can
effectively considered ‘tied’ in terms of their position during spawning. As I am sure the
hors are aware, physical proximity is extremely important in this system for fast fertilization.
We have added additional description of how hierarchies were recorded: “In total, we
observed females spawning at 216 nests. The spawning hierarchies recorded at those
nests included 1 to 7 males. Males in the spawning hierarchy were scored as 1st (closest
behind female), 2nd or 3rd male (most distal from the female). Few spawning hierarchies
had 4 or more males (29 of 216 hierarchies). Male proximity to the female at the time of
sperm release was not measured.” (L96-100).
We agree that physical proximity to the female and the timing of sperm release are likely
relevant to male paternity as indicated in the discussion (L216-219), albeit these factors
were not quantified in our behavioural observations. Interestingly, the first male had a
large paternity advantage over the second male despite the fact that the second male
could release sperm on the unoccupied side of the female, so proximity is unlikely to be
the primary mechanism underlying the paternity advantage of dominant males.
s not clear in general whether a 1-male hierarchy is included in the hierarchies being
cussed. This does not seem like a hierarchy, given that there are no competitors in these cases.
nd using the word ‘hierarchy’ to describe spawning events to be a bit awkward. Perhaps there
subtlety here I have missed, but I think the wording can be improved here so that it is clear
the reader.
We have added additional detail to the introduction to clarify that a hierarchy may
include either a single male or multiple males “This pre-spawning competition among
males typically results in the formation of a local dominance hierarchy associated with a
nesting female, which includes a dominant male nearest the female and may also include
one or more subordinate males slightly farther from the female [17,18]” (L34-37).
The use of the word “hierarchy” is common in the salmonid literature even in the
absence of subordinate males, in part because a single male is dominant to the other
males in the area, even if those males have not assumed subordinate positions associated
with the nesting female.
es 2-3. This statement might require some qualification. Perhaps acknowledge the relatively
e body of literature dedicated to this- one could argue that there are many different studies
outline various ways in which hatchery fish do not perform as well as wild fish.
To better acknowledge the literature dedicated to this subject, rather than stating that
this difference is “poorly understood” we now note that it is “an area of active
research.” (L2-3)
e 13. The end of this sentence could imply that hatchery males suffer lower fitness at the
vin stage, which I do not think is what the authors are trying to say. Perhaps reword this
tence.
We have removed the reference to the alevin stage to avoid confusion in the abstract.
es 14-17. It might be helpful for the reader if this sentence were re-organized to make the
nt that the novel finding of this study is the analysis of paternity.
We have re-organized this point to better emphasize the novel difference in paternity that
we observed: “As previously documented, hatchery males hold inferior positions in
spawning hierarchies, but we also discovered that hatchery males had only 55% to 84%
the paternity of wild males when occupying the same position within a spawning
hierarchy. This paternity difference may result from inferior performance of hatchery
males during sperm competition, female mate choice for wild males, or differential
offspring survival.” (L12-14)
es 160-162. I assume these numbers are from hierarchies of 2 or 3 males? Can the errors
und these numbers be added?
We have clarified that hierarchies include 1 or more males. The errors have been added
in Fig. 1b.
es 160-162. Reporting this in % lower may be misleading. Perhaps just report the numbers
h their errors.
We have replaced this description of the % lower in the text with a second panel of figure
1, which shows the means and standard deviations.
e 171. Does the statement ‘wild males participated in 30% more spawning hierarchies’
ply mean that they participated in more spawnings? Or more spawnings that involved more
n one male?
e 173-174. The end of this sentence is awkward. Perhaps re-word to ‘number of spawnings in
alpha position’?
We have reworded these results for greater clarity: “Briefly, wild males participated in
spawning hierarchies at 30% more nests than hatchery males (mean ± SD: 5.72 ± 3.80
wild vs. 4.40 ± 3.12 hatchery) and were the alpha male at 67% more nests than hatchery
males (mean ± SD: 2.70 ± 3.91 hierarchies for wild vs. 1.62 ± 2.65 for hatchery).”
(L147-150).
e 213. Please clarify what is meant by ‘less dominant’.
This statement was removed in response to changes made to address another comment.
es 221-224. I don’t see how this manuscript represents data from spawning in the wild. Please
word to acknowledge that the data here are from experiments.
We have reworded this point to avoid suggesting the data were collected in the wild:
“Regardless of the specific mechanism, our paternity data clearly indicate that processes
other than competition for spawning hierarchy positions are contributing to the inferior
breeding performance of hatchery males relative to wild males.” (L222-224)
es 237-241. Given the data, I think that these statements might be a bit too alarmist. When
wning alone, hatchery males do not fail to release sperm and fertilize eggs. Perhaps there is
ething that I’ve missed here in terms of the proportion of eggs fertilized by different types of
es. As far as interbreeding and its effects, one could argue that if hatchery rearing can have
h a profound effect over a generation, then perhaps the same is true if fish spend their entire
s in the wild. I don’t completely disagree with the authors here, but I do think that these
ements require a bit of qualification given the data in presented in this paper.
We have tempered these statements to more closely reflect our data, and remove
reference to the effects of interbreeding: “Differences in breeding success between wild
and hatchery fish could have important management consequences, because they suggest
that hatchery fish will have lower fitness than wild fish in mixed populations. This effect
could in part explain why a number of studies have failed to link supplementation
hatcheries to a clear improvement in fish abundance [50, 51]” (L244-247).
e 246. I don’t think the authors can claim this is a post-spawning phenomenon given that they
sent evidence that hatchery fish sperm is not inferior to that of wild fish. Their best
lanation is that hatchery fish likely do not time sperm release appropriately, which is a pre-
wning component.
We have removed reference to post-spawning processes throughout the manuscript, and
now instead note that our results “implicate processes other than competition for spawning
hierarchy positions as part of the deficiency” (L249-250).
le 2. In the 2-male hierarchies, nest ID 12, is it possible that the males spawned on opposite
es of the female? How was this quantified in the hierarchical designation?
It is possible that the males spawned on opposite sides of the female in nest 12, and
indeed it is likely that the second male in most hierarchies spawned on the unoccupied
side of the female. We did not quantify male proximity to the female at the time of sperm
release, and now indicate this point in the methods (L99-100).
ure 1. It might be helpful if this figure also included a breakdown of how hatchery and wild
do when they are in the different hierarchical positions to allow a nice visual representation
he difference between the two.
We have added a second panel to this figure to show the paternity of hatchery and wild
males by hierarchy position.
Society Open
