Metabolic constraints for a novel symbiosis
Megan E. S. Sørensen, Duncan D. Cameron, Michael A. Brockhurst and A. Jamie Wood
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150708.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150708
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 October 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 21 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 19 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 23 February 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150542.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The material has been supplied but it is not clearly described in the manuscript.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I finished the review of the manuscript entitled “Metabolic constraints for a novel symbiosis” by
Megan Sørensen and collaborators. In my opinion the manuscript has merit and certainly would
contribute to understand better one of the key steps for the origin of photosynthetic organelles.
However, I have some concerns and comments that preclude publication of the current version of
the paper. Details are provided below.
Lines 81-127
A considerable part of the introduction section provides several details about the metabolites
presumably exchanged between Paramaecium bursaria and Chlorella endosymbionts. I’m
wondering why Chlorella data was not included in this analysis. I guess this is because the
absence of Chlorella FBA models. Is it possible to construct a FBA model for Chlorella and then
test/contrast the predictions of your analysis against the actual metabolic data mentioned in the
introduction?
Investigating the nature of eukaryote-eukaryote (i.e., secondary) endosymbiosis is critical as well
given that several major algal groups gained plastids via secondary endosymbiosis (analogous to
the case of Paramecium bursaria and Chlorella). The genome of Chlorella variabilis NC64A, a
symbiotic strain, was sequenced some years ago
(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20852019) and that information can be useful for an
expanded analyses. In my view a comparative analysis including Chlorella information will
increase the relevance of the contribution.
Line 85.
I’m always concerned when reading “Aristotelian” notions (e.g., higher versus lower) in scientific
texts. Even more important when those concepts are used in evolutionary biology papers. Those
words spread the sense of hierarchical determinism in the evolutionary process, which we know
is essentially wrong. There is no such thing as “highly” or “lowly” evolved (coevolved) or
“higher” or “lower” organisms. Please revise the text and avoid the use of those terms.
Lines 129.
This manuscript would be an interesting reading for numerous scientists studying endosymbiosis
and eukaryote evolution from the genomic and phylogenetic perspectives, but with not
experience on metabolic modeling. I think it is important to include in the text a brief explanation
about the Flux Balance Analysis and its assumptions.
Lines 136-138.
The genome of the related species Paramecium tetraurelia was sequenced in 2006
(http://www.genoscope.cns.fr/externe/GenomeBrowser/Paramecium/). It is true that the
assembly is fragmented, but there is good information there about the metabolic repertoire of that
ciliate species. Is it possible to generate Paramecium tetraurelia FBA models to expand your
analysis?
3
Figures 1, 3 and 4.
The authors describe in the text differences between the effects of the diverse metabolites, or
metabolite exchanges, over the cell growth rates. However, the bar charts provided in the
mentioned figures have no confidence interval values information.
Why is that? Please clarify.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
1. Yes
2. Possibly.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I understand the evolutionary question being addressed. I began with some optimism about
what I would learn from the manuscript. I’m not sure I agree with some of the attribution in the
general introduction (Refs 1-7). However, the background to the study seems to start with the
very interesting experiment work describe in ref. 8. I was hopeful that this paper would add
some deeper understanding. Unfortunately, I was disappointed.
“The only constraints on reaction fluxes were taken from Knoop et al. (2013) “
By the way, Line 167 “Knoop et al. (2013)” is presumably reference [29]
Knoop et al state “a basal maintenance of 1.13 gDW-1 hr-1 is included”
Inconsistent with this, the authors state “basic ATP consumption (0.13 mmol gDW-1 hr-1).”
Why the different values?
Line 178-79. “A maximum uptake rate of 0.46g N gDCW-1 day-1 was used that had been
measured by Kim (30). "
Of course, ATP turns over - perhaps this is what Knoop et al intend by “basal maintenance”? The
authors here refer instead to “ATP consumption”. If so, it is difficult to see why they separate out
consumption.
Anyway, here again I cannot decide whether I am looking at a typing mistake. It seems likely.
Kim express their measured value for nitrate uptake rate as “0.46 g N/g DW day”.
4
At this point I begin to lose confidence. Is the “C” just carelessness? Seems likely.
Another imponderable. “a residual respiration rate (0.2263 mmol gDW-1 hr-1), Mehler-like
reaction (0.2263 mmol gDW-1 hr-1)”
This would mean 0.0000 mmol gDW-1 hr-1 oxygen exchange. This is absurd, and a value of zero
with incredible precision. Another typo?
Line 171-172. “light is assumed to be the limiting factor and is set to 18.7 mmol gDW-1 hr-1”
Knoop et al state “continuously illuminated by cool white flourescent ..” (sic) “…light of 40
microE m-2 s-1.”
I do not feel inclined to try to work out how the authors derive 18.7 mmol gDW-1 hr-1
“This work has demonstrated how FBA modelling can be applied to evolutionary questions.”
No, unfortunately, I don't think it does. And I search in vain for evolutionary answers.
I have a few of further, general points.
Ohkawa et al feed their Paramecium with Klebsiella. Klebsilla fixes nitrogen. Is there a third
partner in the “forced symbiosis”, making it a consortium?
Wouldn’t it be interesting to replace symbiotic Chlorella with a diazotrophic cynoabacterium,
instead of with Synechocystis 6803 growing on nitrate? Would it be informative to see what FBA
then predicts in advance of any experimental data, to be able to make the comparison? There
seems to me to be an element here of finding a way to “predict” what is already known, but even
that fails. What would be the observation that potentially disproves the hypothesis? If the paper
is about methodology, then it has not succeeded in describing the technique.
By the way, Ohkawa et al discover that BG11 quickly runs out of phosphate. This is long known.
Should phosphate availability and metabolism play some part in the model?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150542)
24-Nov-2015
Dear Ms Sørensen:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150542 entitled "Metabolic constraints for a novel symbiosis" which you
submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are
included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 23-May-2016. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
5
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Kevin Padian, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150542)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150708.R0
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The information to access supplemental data and other used resources is acceptable.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I have no further comments. I am satisfied with the author's responses.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150708)
12-Feb-2016
Dear Ms Sørensen
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150708 entitled
"Metabolic constraints for a novel symbiosis" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, with no further changes
required to the body of the text. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the check that your
manuscript has the following information at the end of the manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150708
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
7
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Feb-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150708)
We are very grateful to the editor and reviewers for reassessing and accepting our manuscript.
We have added the required information to the end of the manuscript, but otherwise have not
altered the text.
Appendix A
Dear Editor,
Thank you for considering our paper and giving us the opportunity to resubmit. The referees make a
number of points about our manuscript covering many different aspects. We have detailed our responses
to each of these points below and also made changes reflecting their comments in the manuscript itself.
We trust you agree that the manuscript is now ready for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Reviewer: 1
I’m not sure I agree with some of the attribution in the general introduction (Refs 1-7).
Response: We are sorry that the reviewer feels this way, however, without more specific
recommendations we have struggled somewhat to work out where we erred. The nature of
endosymbiosis is complex and many people have done important work to elucidate it. It is
not possible to reference every contribution, but we selected the publications that were the
most influential for us. In light of the reviewer’s comments we have added more references
to the introduction and hope that they feel that we now fully acknowledge the necessary
work.
Reference 1 – This recent Keeling review provides an excellent overview of the impact of
plastids, and so illustrates the importance of endosymbiosis. In particular it has an
excellent figure that highlights the presence of plastids in the tree of life that we found
especially informative.
Reference 2 - Lynn Margulis (writing as Lynn Sagan at the time) is commonly
acknowledged as championing the endosymbiotic theory. We did not claim that she
came up with the theory, as this was done by Merechowsky (1905).
Reference 3 & 4 - These were just chosen as influential examples of the pivotal
molecular work that provided the evidence for endosymbiosis, and we have expanded
this to include Zablen et al (1975) and Raven (1970), which we hope broadens the
acknowledgment sufficiently (lines 52-53).
Reference 5 - Despite the fact many others have written on the subject, the Cavalier-
Smith paper deals very specifically between the difference between Symbiogenesis
and symbiosis, and we therefore thought it was the most appropriate choice.
Reference 6 – Again this is a very broad subject, and we admit that many other papers
could have been referenced, but we felt the Dyall paper provided a clear summary of the
transition from symbiont to organelle.
Reference 7 – We felt the Martin & Herrmann paper presented a good overview of gene
transfer from the organelle to the nucleus, and particularly highlighted the degree of
genome reduction that has occurred. Though it does not present much evidence per se. We
have, therefore, expanded to also reference Martin et al (2002) and Chua & Schmidt (1978)
(line 65).
“The only constraints on reaction fluxes were taken from Knoop et al. (2013)” By the way, Line 167 “Knoop
et al. (2013)” is presumably reference [29]
Response: Apologies for the lack of clarity for this reference, we have amended this (line
148).
Knoop et al state “a basal maintenance of 1.13 gDW-1 hr-1 is included”
Inconsistent with this, the authors state “basic ATP consumption (0.13 mmol gDW-1 hr-1).”
Why the different values? Of course, ATP turns over - perhaps this is what Knoop et al intend by “basal
maintenance”? The authors here refer instead to “ATP consumption”. If so, it is difficult to see why they
separate out consumption.
Response: Knoop et al state on p.2 of their paper that they use “a basal maintenance of
1.3mmol ATP gDW-1 hr-1”, and on p.12 that “a general ATP consumption for cellular
maintenance of 0.133mmol gDW-1 hr-1”. The value we quoted in our manuscript was
referring to their second value, and so is not a typo. We choose the second value reported
in the Knoop paper because it was that value (0.13) that was used in their actual model (in
their supplementary Table 3) to constrain ATP consumption (R147). We therefore believe
that we were consistent with the Knoop paper. We concede that our phrasing was possibly
unclear, and therefore have altered it and hope that it is now clearer (line 169).
Line 178-79. “A maximum uptake rate of 0.46g N gDCW-1 day-1 was used that had been measured by Kim
(30). "Kim express their measured value for nitrate uptake rate as “0.46 g N/g DW day”.
Response: Apologies, this was a typo, the “C” is not supposed to be there, and this has
been corrected.
Another imponderable. “a residual respiration rate (0.2263 mmol gDW-1 hr-1), Mehler-like reaction
(0.2263 mmol gDW-1 hr-1)”. This would mean 0.0000 mmol gDW-1 hr-1 oxygen exchange. This is
absurd, and a value of zero with incredible precision. Another typo?
Response: Knoop on p.3 states that “To account for basal respiratory activity in the light
we assume non-zero activity of the terminal oxidase, as well as that of the Mehler-like
reaction(Both processes are assumed to take up 10% of O2 evolution of photosystem II” .
Then on p.12 it is specified that “a steady respiration rate of the cytochrome c oxidase of
0.2263 mmol h-1 gDW is assumed, which corresponds to about 10% of the maximally
photosynthetically produced O2”. Furthermore, in their supplementary table 3, it is clear the
respiration (R457) is bound to 0.2263 mmol h-1 gDW, and the Mehler-like reaction is also
bound to 0.2263 mmol h-1 gDW (R481). We therefore believe that our values are correct.
The basal respiration rate and mehler-like reaction are not the only two reactions involved
with oxygen formation and consumption; we therefore see no issue with the rates being the
same value because this does not lead to zero oxygen exchange.
Line 171-172. “light is assumed to be the limiting factor and is set to 18.7 mmol gDW-1 hr-1”
Knoop et al state “continuously illuminated by cool white flourescent ..” (sic) “@light of 40 microE m-2 s-1.”
Response: The value of 40 microE m-2 s-1 is the value they used for their experimental
growth conditions, and the value of 18.7 mmol gDW-1 hr-1 is the one they use to constrain
light in their model (this is seen in their model conditions which is presented in
supplementary table 3). We therefore used the later, as that was the appropriate value for
the FBA model. We agree that the conversion between the two is not apparent, but Knoop
et al did not provide their methodology for this, which is why we referred only to the model
value and do not talk about its ‘real life’ equivalent.
“This work has demonstrated how FBA modelling can be applied to evolutionary questions.”
No, unfortunately, I don't think it does. And I search in vain for evolutionary answers.
Response: We are sorry that the reviewer does not think we provide sufficient evolutionary
answers and we disagree with the statement that we provide none. Whilst the comment is
lacking in specifics for us to make a detailed response we believe it will be helpful to briefly
highlight the main evolutionary findings that we believe our manuscript puts forward.
• Our FBA model both predicts what metabolites would be exchanged in this novel
endosymbiosis, and demonstrates how the metabolites change as the nature of the
symbiosis evolves over time towards more tightly coadapted mutualism (lines 198-
209).
• We also report that C:N price determined the carbon source exchange that would
be favoured by selection, while the nature of the symbiosis (parasitic versus
mutualistic) determined the favourable nitrogen source (lines 269-273).
• The model indicates the stage in the evolution of endosymbiosis where the greatest
adjustment of metabolism is required, suggesting barriers to the evolution of stable
endosymbiosis (lines 372-379).
• We indicate how the comparison of our predictions to experimental measurements
would reveal which partner was in control and whether additional constraints were
likely to be present (lines 364-370), which has implications for predicting the
evolutionary outcomes of the interaction.
FBA modelling has not previously been used to study the establishment of endosymbiosis,
therefore we believe that the insights gained from our work are novel and do provide
evolutionary insights.
I have a few of further, general points.
Ohkawa et al feed their Paramecium with Klebsiella. Klebsilla fixes nitrogen. Is there a third partner in the
“forced symbiosis”, making it a consortium?
Response: We agree with the reviewer that the possibility of a consortium would be a very
interesting avenue of research, and it is becoming apparent that partnerships we previously
believed to only involve two organisms are in fact more complicated and involve several.
However, we do not think it applies in this case. It was been well established in the
literature (e.g. http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/znc.2010.65.issue-7-8/znc-2010-7-810/znc-
2010-7-810.xml) that Paramecium eats bacteria, and gets directly nitrogen through
predation. These bacteria are not kept alive within the Paramecium cell and therefore do no
constitute a symbiont. On the other hand, Ohkawa et al demonstrated that Synechocystis
was kept stably alive in Paramecium and not digested, which does indicate an
endosymbiotic partnership.
Wouldn’t it be interesting to replace symbiotic Chlorella with a diazotrophic cynoabacterium, instead of with
Synechocystis 6803 growing on nitrate? Would it be informative to see what FBA then predicts in advance
of any experimental data, to be able to make the comparison?
Response: This would indeed be an interesting comparison, however, it would be posing a
very different question to the one we chose to investigate. The natural symbiont, Chlorella,
provides carbon but not nitrogen, it in fact receives nitrogen from the host. We felt that the
cyanobacteria should have roughly similar metabolic inputs/outputs to the natural
symbiont if the replacement was to succeed, and so a non-nitrogen fixing cyanobacteria
was used. Furthermore, the FBA modelling requires a very high level of sequence
annotation, which Synechocystis has to a far greater degree of detail than any other
cyanobacteria. It is an interesting idea that we will keep in mind for future development.
There seems to me to be an element here of finding a way to “predict” what is already known, but even that
fails. What would be the observation that potentially disproves the hypothesis? If the paper is about
methodology, then it has not succeeded in describing the technique.
Response: We strongly disagree that all we have done is to predict something that is
already known because the metabolites involved in the Synechocystis-Paramecium
endosymbiosis have not been identified, and we provide hypotheses about the optimal
exchanges based upon a mechanistic model. Not only have we predicted their identities in
this novel symbiosis, but we have also predicted how these metabolites may change over
time. Experimental validation of these metabolites would provide a direct means of testing
our model’s prediction and could disprove our hypothesis that FBA modelling can be
applied to evolutionary questions.
By the way, Ohkawa et al discover that BG11 quickly runs out of phosphate. This is long known. Should
phosphate availability and metabolism play some part in the model?
Response: The uptake of phosphate from the external environment is included in the
model. Though in the current investigations it was assumed that light would be the growth
limiting factor. We have checked this assumption in the model and we agree that the model,
in its given state, is first light limited and then becomes phosphate limited, but only after
light is roughly greater than 100mmol photons gDW-1 hr-1. It could, however, be an avenue
of future research because nutrient limitation is certainly an area the model could be
applied to, and we appreciate the suggestion.
Reviewer: 2
Lines 81-127
A considerable part of the introduction section provides several details about the metabolites presumably
exchanged between Paramaecium bursaria and Chlorella endosymbionts. I’m wondering why Chlorella
data was not included in this analysis. I guess this is because the absence of Chlorella FBA models. Is it
possible to construct a FBA model for Chlorella and then test/contrast the predictions of your analysis
against the actual metabolic data mentioned in the introduction?
Investigating the nature of eukaryote-eukaryote (i.e., secondary) endosymbiosis is critical as well given that
several major algal groups gained plastids via secondary endosymbiosis (analogous to the case of
Paramecium bursaria and Chlorella). The genome of Chlorella variabilis NC64A, a symbiotic strain, was
sequenced some years ago (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20852019) and that information can be
useful for an expanded analyses. In my view a comparative analysis including Chlorella information will
increase the relevance of the contribution.
Response: We entirely agree that secondary endosymbioses are also very important
because they have been the major means through which photosymbiosis has spread
across the eukaryotes. There are two very basic attempts at Chlorella FBA models (Wu et
al. 2015; Muthuraj et al (2013)) which we have investigated, however, firstly these are for
non-symbiotic chlorella strains, and secondly, they contain so few reactions that they are
not really comparable to the synechocystis model. As the reviewer mentions, there is a
sequence for Chlorella variabilis it is unfortunately not yet annotated to the high level of
detail that an FBA model would require. Therefore, while we agree with the reviewer that
such a comparison would be very interesting, a great amount of work would be required to
produce a Chlorella FBA model of sufficient quality, and therefore this is beyond the scope
of this manuscript.
Line 85.
I’m always concerned when reading “Aristotelian” notions (e.g., higher versus lower) in scientific texts.
Even more important when those concepts are used in evolutionary biology papers. Those words spread
the sense of hierarchical determinism in the evolutionary process, which we know is essentially wrong.
There is no such thing as “highly” or “lowly” evolved (coevolved) or “higher” or “lower” organisms. Please
revise the text and avoid the use of those terms.
Response: We agree and apologise for the use of such terms: they are very misleading
when used in evolutionary texts. We have removed all instances of these words (line 85).
Lines 129.
I think it is important to include in the text a brief explanation about the Flux Balance Analysis and its
assumptions.
Response: We agree that this would be a useful addition, and have included a short section
to that effect (lines 133-142).
Lines 136-138.
The genome of the related species Paramecium tetraurelia was sequenced in 2006
(http://www.genoscope.cns.fr/externe/GenomeBrowser/Paramecium/). It is true that the assembly is
fragmented, but there is good information there about the metabolic repertoire of that ciliate species. Is it
possible to generate Paramecium tetraurelia FBA models to expand your analysis?
Response: Unfortunately, we do not think it is possible to make a Paramecium FBA model.
The genome information is far less detailed even than that of Chlorella, and we believe it is
not merely a matter of time, but actually impossible to make a FBA model from the current
data available. The key barrier is the lack of accurate gene annotation, without which one
cannot infer the enzymes present. It is our long-term goal to construct a paramecium FBA
as it would complement the Synechocystis model in our work and provide a two-sided
modelling approach, but sadly it is simply not feasible at this time.
Figures 1, 3 and 4.
However, the bar charts provided in the mentioned figures have no confidence interval values information.
Why is that? Please clarify.
Response: All the data presented is generated by the FBA model, it is a deterministic model
and so given a set of conditions will always calculate the same growth rate. There is
therefore no variation in the predictions, and so no confidence intervals are shown on the
graphs.
Society Open
