A data-driven approach for optimal design of integrated air
quality monitoring network in a chemical cluster
Zhengqiu Zhu, Bin Chen, Sihang Qiu, Rongxiao Wang, Yiping Wang, Liang Ma and
Xiaogang Qiu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180889.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180889
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180147.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
After reviewing the manuscript “A Data-driven Approach for Optimal Design of Integrated Air
Quality Monitoring Network in a Chemical Cluster”, I find that the authors have developed a
well-designed approach. However, the novelty of the manuscript is unclear.
Many papers address the issue of multi-objective optimization for air quality monitoring. It
appears the novelty of this manuscript is the use of Bayesian maximum entropy; however, it is
not clear if this approach provides any additional benefit to other studies that have utilized
varying methodologies. I have the following questions for the manuscript:
1. The term ‘real’ historic data, when discussing simulated data must be avoided. Real data
should refer to observed information about the field.
2. When functions are presented not all terms are defined following the equation.
3. The authors should review existing Bayesian approaches to monitor optimization, such as
Ainslie, B., Reuten, C., Steyn, D. G., Le, N. D., & Zidek, J. V. (2009). Application of an entropy-
based Bayesian optimization technique to the redesign of an existing monitoring network for
single air pollutants. Journal of environmental management, 90(8), 2715-2729.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
It can be accepted in its present form...
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Denglong Ma)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors proposed a data-driven approach to optimize the design of Air Qualitu Monitoring
Network (AQMN). It is valuable and useful for application. However, there are still some
problems, which should be revised before publication.
1. Section 2.1 LINE 48-51: The simulation model of KD-ADSS was used to sinmulate the gas
dispersion.The authors said that KD-ADSS is baed on the Gaussian-model and validated by
PHAST. But the dispersion model in PHAST is also based on Gaussian dispersion model as I
know. Waht the difference btween PHAST and KD-ADSS. Especially, what is the superiority of
KD-ADSS to the PHAST TO simulate the gas dispersion?
2. Section 3.2 : The authors utitlized the KD-ADSS to simulate the emission scenarios of
Shanghai chemical cluster. But how to make sure that the the accuracy of the simulation data
because the urban environment like Shanhai area is very complex and the model based on
Gaussian dispersiin is unfitted in such urban envionment with amount of buildings and
obstacles.
3. Section 2.2 There should be a flow chart for BME for more clearly understand.
4. Section 4.3.3 Authors discussed the impact of facilitu numbers of monitoring network on
predicted accuracy. Actually, some similar researches have been done in other papers, e.g.In the
paper of "Ma, D.L., Deng, J.Q., Zhang, Z.X., 2013. Comparison and improvements of optimization
methods for gas emission source identification. Atmos. Environ. 81,188-198.",the authors have
discussed the number and the distribution of the sensors to the prediction and source estimation.
Authos should review these papers in Introduction section.
5. There are some errors in English expressions
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180147.R0)
25-May-2018
Dear Dr Chen:
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180147
Title: "A Data-driven Approach for Optimal Design of Integrated Air Quality Monitoring
Network in a Chemical Cluster"
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. Your paper was
sent to reviewers and their comments are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the concerns raised by the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current
form. However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these
comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 22-Nov-2018. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Hazel Cox
**********************************************
REVIEWER(S) REPORTS:
Associate Editor Comments to Author ():
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
5
RSC Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_5
(There are no comments.)
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
After reviewing the manuscript “A Data-driven Approach for Optimal Design of Integrated Air
Quality Monitoring Network in a Chemical Cluster”, I find that the authors have developed a
well-designed approach. However, the novelty of the manuscript is unclear.
Many papers address the issue of multi-objective optimization for air quality monitoring. It
appears the novelty of this manuscript is the use of Bayesian maximum entropy; however, it is
not clear if this approach provides any additional benefit to other studies that have utilized
varying methodologies. I have the following questions for the manuscript:
1. The term ‘real’ historic data, when discussing simulated data must be avoided. Real data
should refer to observed information about the field.
2. When functions are presented not all terms are defined following the equation.
3. The authors should review existing Bayesian approaches to monitor optimization, such as
Ainslie, B., Reuten, C., Steyn, D. G., Le, N. D., &amp; Zidek, J. V. (2009). Application of an
entropy-based Bayesian optimization technique to the redesign of an existing monitoring
network for single air pollutants. Journal of environmental management, 90(8), 2715-2729.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
It can be accepted in its present form...
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
The authors proposed a data-driven approach to optimize the design of Air Qualitu Monitoring
Network (AQMN). It is valuable and useful for application. However, there are still some
problems, which should be revised before publication.
1. Section 2.1 LINE 48-51: The simulation model of KD-ADSS was used to sinmulate the gas
dispersion.The authors said that KD-ADSS is baed on the Gaussian-model and validated by
PHAST. But the dispersion model in PHAST is also based on Gaussian dispersion model as I
know. Waht the difference btween PHAST and KD-ADSS. Especially, what is the superiority of
KD-ADSS to the PHAST TO simulate the gas dispersion?
2. Section 3.2 : The authors utitlized the KD-ADSS to simulate the emission scenarios of Shanghai
chemical cluster. But how to make sure that the the accuracy of the simulation data because the
urban environment like Shanhai area is very complex and the model based on Gaussian
dispersiin is unfitted in such urban envionment with amount of buildings and obstacles.
3. Section 2.2 There should be a flow chart for BME for more clearly understand.
4. Section 4.3.3 Authors discussed the impact of facilitu numbers of monitoring network on
predicted accuracy. Actually, some similar researches have been done in other papers, e.g.In the
paper of "Ma, D.L., Deng, J.Q., Zhang, Z.X., 2013. Comparison and improvements of optimization
methods for gas emission source identification. Atmos. Environ. 81,188-198.",the authors have
discussed the number and the distribution of the sensors to the prediction and source estimation.
Authos should review these papers in Introduction section.
5. There are some errors in English expressions
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180147.R0)
See Appendices A - D.
label_version_2
RSOS-180889.R0
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_9
The authors have done a good job of addressing previous concerns.
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Denglong Ma)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
7
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_10
The response is clear and enough and the revised manuscript is understood more clear than
before. I have no other comments. It should be accepted.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180889.R0)
23-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Chen:
Title: A Data-driven Approach for Optimal Design of Integrated Air Quality Monitoring Network
in a Chemical Cluster
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180889
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewers who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Hazel Cox.
8
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_11
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_12
The response is clear and enough and the revised manuscript is understood more clear than
before. I have no other comments. It should be accepted.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_13
The authors have done a good job of addressing previous concerns.
Appendix A
Dear editor and reviewers,
Thanks for your comments on our manuscript entitled “A Data-driven Approach
for Optimal Design of Integrated Air Quality Monitoring Network in a Chemical
Cluster” (RSOS-180147). The manuscript has certainly benefited from these
insightful constructive revision suggestions. We have carefully studied the
comments as well as suggestions, and have made corresponding corrections. To
address reviewers’ comments, we have revised the abstract, the introduction, the
methods, the results and the conclusions. Especially, we add an abstract figure to
illustrate how the proposed method works in this paper and implement more
experiments to show novelties and benefits of this method. Revised contents are
marked in red in the manuscript as well as this response letter. The points
mentioned by the reviewers are discussed as follows.
Responses to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer #1:
1. Comment 0: After reviewing the manuscript “A Data-driven Approach for
Optimal Design of Integrated Air Quality Monitoring Network in a
Chemical Cluster”, I find that the authors have developed a well-designed
approach. However, the novelty of the manuscript is unclear. Many papers
address the issue of multi-objective optimization for air quality monitoring.
It appears the novelty of this manuscript is the use of Bayesian maximum
entropy; however, it is not clear if this approach provides any additional
benefit to other studies that have utilized varying methodologies.
Response: Thank you very much for the reviewer’s positive affirmative
evaluation on our designed approach. Meanwhile, we are so sorry for that the
manuscript did not make it clear to you about the novelties.
First of all, we focus on the design of gas sensor modules network in a
chemical industrial park. The monitoring network of gas sensor modules is an
effective supplement to the present built monitoring stations. And few people
made researches on this problem. Due to the practical conditions, the
measurements collected by gas sensor modules cannot guarantee the data
completeness and continuity. That is, these measurements often contain
uncertainties. Therefore, traditional entropy-based Bayesian optimization
methods are not suitable in our problem because these methods only apply in the
situation wherein the dataset is complete or can be transformed into a complete
form.
Second, traditional multi-objective optimization model-based AQMN
designing methods did not fully utilize the information of long-term collected
measurements data. Bayesian Maximum Entropy analysis can provide a
spatial-temporal map (especially can predict data at unmeasured spots) based on
some physical information and data at measured spots with acceptable prediction
accuracy. And this method has been proved to outperform other interpolation
methods in some references which are listed in this manuscript. Therefore, we
propose a data-driven method which is constituted of the BME analysis and a
multi-objective method. The concrete workflow of this method is shown in the
abstract figure. Till now, we have not found any researches which put forward
similar methods to redesign an AQMN of gas sensor modules for a chemical
cluster. Therefore, we rewrote the novelties of this paper in the introduction
section as well as conclusion section and changed some expressions in the
abstract section to avoid some misunderstandings.
Abstract figure: workflow of the proposed data-driven method.
Third, we did more experiments to illustrate the benefits of this study and to
show its unique novelties. The initial layout of AQMN is set as shown in figure 5.
We firstly only imported four years’ monitoring data at measured spots into BME
to get the fifth year’s spatial-temporal map. And then the spatial-temporal data is
used to solve the multi-objective optimization model. So we get the first two
figures (a) and (b). Figure (a) shows the redesigned AMQN while figure (b)
shows the prediction accuracy of BME results based on the first
four-year-measurement data. Then, we imported six years’ monitoring data at
measured spots into BME to get the seventh year’s spatial-temporal map.
Subsequently, the spatial-temporal data is used to solve the multi-objective
optimization model. So we get another two figures (c) and (d). Figure (c) shows
a new redesigned AMQN while figure (d) shows the prediction accuracy of BME
results based on the first six-year-measurement data. Moreover, we imported the
first eight-year-measurement data and followed the steps mentioned above. So
we get figures (e) and (f). It is easily concluded from these experiments that the
layout of the resigned network is changing with more measured data imported
and the prediction accuracy steadily increases when more measurements are
utilized. The added experiments reveal that our proposed data-driven method can
redesign the AQMN of gas sensor modules step by step with acceptable
prediction accuracy as more data is used.
Figure 5. Simplified study area used in experiments.
Added figure: the evolutional AQMN of gas sensor modules as more data is
imported.
The revised contents are marked in red in the revised manuscript. They are
also shown as follows:
1) Line 7-10: The sentence of “Since monitoring facilities located at
inappropriate sites would affect data validity, a data-driven approach
combining the spatiotemporal technique - Bayesian Maximum Entropy
in conjunction with a multi-objective optimization model was utilized
to optimize the design of an Air Quality Monitoring Network (AQMN)
of gas sensor modules in this paper” in the ‘Summary section’ is
changed into “Since monitoring facilities located at inappropriate sites
would affect data validity, a two-stage data-driven approach constituted
of the spatiotemporal technique (i.e., Bayesian Maximum Entropy) and
a multi-objective optimization model (i.e., maximum concentration
detection capability and maximum dosage detection capability) is
proposed in this paper”.
2) Line 10-12: The sentence of “Moreover, our developed atmospheric
dispersion simulation system was employed to generate ‘real’ historical
data for the above method and an illustrative case study was
implemented to illustrate the feasibility of the proposed approach” in
the ‘Summary section’ is changed into “The approach aims at
optimizing the design of an Air Quality Monitoring Network (AQMN)
formed by gas sensor modules. Due to the lack of long-term
measurement data, our developed atmospheric dispersion simulation
system was employed to generate simulated data for the above
method”.
3) Line 12-14: The sentence of “Finally, results imply that this work is
able to facilitate a decision-making process for determining an
appropriate Air Quality Monitoring Network with acceptable accuracy
and efficiency” in the ‘Summary section’ is changed into “Finally, an
illustrative case study was implemented to illustrate the feasibility of
the proposed approach, and results imply that this work is able to
design an appropriate Air Quality Monitoring Network with acceptable
accuracy and efficiency”.
4) Line 57-71: The paragraph of “In this paper, a data-driven method is
introduced to design an integrated AQMN wherein both high-accuracy
air quality monitoring stations and gas sensor modules are modeled.
The goal of this research is to design an effective and appropriate
AQMN to evaluate the spatiotemporal concentration distribution of air
contaminants and the effectiveness of pollution control strategies for a
chemical cluster. The proposed method facilitates the daily
management work of the environmental protection authorities with the
following contributions. First, trends analysis of gaseous pollutants
based on historical monitoring measurements from fixed high-accuracy
monitoring stations are implemented. Then, our developed atmospheric
dispersion simulation system is utilized to generate ‘real’ historical data
(i.e., simulated dataset) based on results of trends analysis.
Subsequently, Bayesian Maximum Entropy (BME) is introduced to
generate predicted concentration distribution of gaseous pollutants
based on ‘real’ historical data obtained from gas sensor modules.
Finally, a multi-objective optimization model aiming at optimizing the
monitoring network of gas sensor modules is built up on account of the
predicted concentration distribution over the study area. The proposed
data-driven method, which involves two kinds of inspection resources,
is a supplement of existing monitoring approaches, and greatly
improves the validity of monitoring data” in the ‘Summary section’ is
changed into “However, the ambient air quality monitoring problem in
our work is totally different from the domains of research mentioned
above. In this paper, a data-driven method is introduced to design an
integrated AQMN wherein both high-accuracy air quality monitoring
stations and gas sensor modules are modeled for a chemical cluster.
Due to the lack of long-term measurements, our developed atmospheric
dispersion simulation system is utilized to generate simulated historical
dataset based on the results of trends analysis. The dataset collected by
gas sensor modules cannot guarantee the completeness and continuity
when considering the actual situation. Thus, Bayesian Maximum
Entropy (BME) is introduced to generate predicted concentration
distribution of gaseous pollutants under this condition of dataset.
Finally, a multi-objective optimization model (i.e., maximum
concentration detection capability and maximum dosage detection
capability) aiming at optimizing the monitoring network of gas sensor
modules is built up on account of the predicted concentration
distribution over the study area. When latest measurements of gas
sensor modules are imported, the monitoring network would be
redesigned accordingly after conducting the BME process and
multi-objective optimization process. In view of that the number and
the initial distribution of gas sensor modules have influenced the
prediction accuracy greatly [27-29], thus they are also discussed in the
results section. The proposed data-driven method, which involves two
kinds of inspection resources, is a supplement of existing monitoring
approaches, and greatly improves the validity of monitoring data”.
5) Line 111-113: The advantages of BME analysis are marked in red in the
revised manuscript: “It is worth noting that BME has already been
proved to perform much better in a spatiotemporal analysis compared
to the Kriging technique and interpolation approaches, especially in
situation where the dataset cannot guarantee completeness and
continuity [36]”.
6) Line 414-415: The sentence of “In addressing this situation, this paper
applies a data-driven approach combining the spatiotemporal technique
- BME with a multi-objective optimization model to optimize the
design of an AQMN of gas sensor modules” in the ‘Conclusion section’
is changed into “In addressing this situation, the proposed data-driven
method moves forward the state of the art of this domain with the
following originalities: (i) The first originality is the proposed
data-driven method which aims to optimize the AQMN of gas sensor
modules in a chemical cluster with acceptable accuracy; (ii) The second
originality is to incorporate BME analysis with a multi-objective
optimization method, forming a two-stage processing procedure”.
2. Comment 1: The term ‘real’ historic data, when discussing simulated data
must be avoided. Real data should refer to observed information about the
field.
Response: Thank you for the practical suggestion. We apologize for the
incorrect utilization of expressions ‘real historic data’. As the reviewer suggested,
we checked through the whole manuscript and changed the expression of ‘real
historic data’ into ‘simulated data’ or ‘simulation data’. The revised contents are
marked in red in the revised manuscript. They are also shown as follows:
1) Line 11-12: The sentence of “Moreover, our developed atmospheric
dispersion simulation system was employed to generate ‘real’ historical
data for the above method and an illustrative case study was
implemented to illustrate the feasibility of the proposed approach” in
the ‘Summary section’ is changed into “Due to the lack of long-term
measurement data, our developed atmospheric dispersion simulation
system was employed to generate simulated data for the above
method”.
2) Line 60: The sentence of “Then, our developed atmospheric dispersion
simulation system is utilized to generate ‘real’ historical data (i.e.,
simulated dataset) based on results of trends analysis” in the
‘Introduction section’ is revised into “Due to the lack of long-term
measurements, our developed atmospheric dispersion simulation
system is utilized to generate simulated historical dataset based on the
results of trends analysis”.
3) Line 87: The sentence of “After simulation, the generated concentration
distribution of a particular pollutant serves as ‘real’ historical
concentration distribution data (i.e., simulated dataset)” in the ‘Methods
section’ is revised into “After simulation, the generated concentration
distribution of a particular pollutant serves as simulated historical
concentration distribution data”.
4) Line 231: The sentence of “Then, the source term as well as historical
meteorological data is imported into KD-ADSS to generate ‘real’
historical concentration data of SO2 within the area of Shanghai
chemical cluster in subsection 3.2” in the ‘Datasets and experimental
setups section’ is revised into “Then, the source term and historical
meteorological data are imported into KD-ADSS to generate simulated
historical concentration data of SO2 within the area of Shanghai
chemical cluster in subsection 3.2”.
5) Line 269: The word ‘real’ is replaced by ‘simulated’.
6) Line 278-279: The word ‘real’ is replaced by ‘simulated’.
7) Line 331-332, 342-343, 359: The word ‘real’ is replaced by
‘simulation’.
3. Comment 2: When functions are presented not all terms are defined
following the equation.
Response: Thank you so much for the comment. Considering the
reviewer’s comment, we checked through the whole manuscript and found some
equations listed without definition. We are very sorry for the stupid mistake. The
modified contents are presented as follows in red:
1) Line 96-98: We add the definitions after the listed function: “It is
essential to denote g (t, z,<U+F071> , ts ) as the dispersion function of a single
puff with unit release rate, where t s means the time when puff starts to
disperse; <U+F071> ={l , q(t )} represents the release source formed by source
location l and release rate q(t ) ; and t , z denote the time and location
used to calculate the theoretical concentration”.
2) Line 101: The word ‘function’ is revised into ‘duration’.
4. Comment3: The authors should review existing Bayesian approaches to
monitor optimization, such as Ainslie, B., Reuten, C., Steyn, D. G., Le, N.
D., & Zidek, J. V. (2009). Application of an entropy-based Bayesian
optimization technique to the redesign of an existing monitoring network for
single air pollutants. Journal of environmental management, 90(8),
2715-2729.
Response: Thanks for this comment. It is kind of the reviewer to remind us
of reviewing more papers on existing Bayesian approaches which aims to
monitor optimization, especially the entropy-based Bayesian optimization
method. We are really sorry for the negligence on literature review works.
Considering the reviewer’s suggestion, we read these papers and made some
changes in the introduction section. The corresponding modifications are marked
in red as follows:
1) Line 51-56: The review of entropy-based Bayesian optimization
methods is added: “To sidestep the problem of specifying a particular
design objective or some conflicted objectives, Le and Zidek [25]
proposed an entropy-based Bayesian optimization method to maximize
the uncertainty reduction when selecting a number of stations. Later on,
Ainslie et al. applied the method of Le and Zidek to the spatial redesign
of the AQMN with two-decade long dataset [26]. It could be drawn that
most of these methods focused on optimizing the number and layout of
fixed monitoring stations for urban areas and most of these methods
required complete sequence datasets”.
We thank the editor and the reviewers for their insightful comments that have led
to significant improvements of the manuscript. Thanks for your help to our paper
processing again.
With kind regards,
The authors: Zhengqiu Zhu, Bin Chen, Sihang Qiu, Rongxiao Wang, Yiping
Wang, Liang Ma and Xiaogang Qiu.
Appendix B
Dear editor and reviewers,
Thanks for your comments on our manuscript entitled “A Data-driven Approach
for Optimal Design of Integrated Air Quality Monitoring Network in a Chemical
Cluster” (RSOS-180147). The manuscript has certainly benefited from these
insightful constructive revision suggestions. We have carefully studied the
comments as well as suggestions, and have made corresponding corrections. To
address reviewers’ comments, we have revised the abstract, the introduction, the
methods, the results and the conclusions. Especially, we add an abstract figure to
illustrate how the proposed method works in this paper and implement more
experiments to show novelties and benefits of this method. Revised contents are
marked in red in the manuscript as well as this response letter. The points
mentioned by the reviewers are discussed as follows.
Responses to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer #2:
1. Comment 0: It can be accepted in its present form.
Response: Thank you very much for the reviewer’s positive affirmative
evaluation on our manuscript. We really appreciate your recognition and we will
move on to conduct follow-up studies.
We thank the editor and the reviewers for their insightful comments that have led
to significant improvements of the manuscript. Thanks for your help to our paper
processing again.
With kind regards,
The authors: Zhengqiu Zhu, Bin Chen, Sihang Qiu, Rongxiao Wang, Yiping
Wang, Liang Ma and Xiaogang Qiu.
Appendix C
Dear editor and reviewers,
Thanks for your comments on our manuscript entitled “A Data-driven Approach
for Optimal Design of Integrated Air Quality Monitoring Network in a Chemical
Cluster” (RSOS-180147). The manuscript has certainly benefited from these
insightful constructive revision suggestions. We have carefully studied the
comments as well as suggestions, and have made corresponding corrections. To
address reviewers’ comments, we have revised the abstract, the introduction, the
methods, the results and the conclusions. Especially, we add an abstract figure to
illustrate how the proposed method works in this paper and implement more
experiments to show novelties and benefits of this method. Revised contents are
marked in red in the manuscript as well as this response letter. The points
mentioned by the reviewers are discussed as follows.
Responses to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer #3:
1. Comment 0: The authors proposed a data-driven approach to optimize the
design of Air Quality Monitoring Network (AQMN). It is valuable and
useful for application. However, there are still some problems, which should
be revised before publication.
Response: Thanks for reviewing our manuscript and thank you very much
for the reviewer’s positive affirmative evaluation. We are very pleased that you
can recognize the work we have done in a chemical cluster. Environmental
protection authorities in most chemical clusters in China face the atmospheric
pollution abatement problem and they still make the subjective decisions on their
experience. But actually, these decisions are not practical in reality and thus the
atmospheric pollution problem caused by industrial production is still serious.
Our work on game-theory security, atmospheric dispersion simulation, air quality
monitoring network design and source estimation methods has received much
attention and has good application foreground. And we hope that you can also
like our follow-up research and related applications. After checking your
comments through the manuscript, we made corresponding revisions as follows.
2. Comment 1: Section 2.1 LINE 48-51: The simulation model of KD-ADSS
was used to simulate the gas dispersion. The authors said that KD-ADSS is
based on the Gaussian-model and validated by PHAST. But the dispersion
model in PHAST is also based on Gaussian dispersion model as I know.
What’s the difference between PHAST and KD-ADSS. Especially, what is
the superiority of KD-ADSS to the PHAST to simulate the gas dispersion?
Response: Thank you for the practical suggestion. From the comment, we
know that you must be a domain expert in atmospheric dispersion simulation.
The well-acknowledged software PHAST is developed by the DNV Technical
Company in Norway and provides four kinds of calculation models. The
software is suitable for many domains’ simulation and well-acknowledged by
many researches. The KD-ADSS software is a freely available simulation
software developed by National University of Defense Technology (i.e., to be
specific, the software is developed by our group). The software is a
Gaussian-model based simulation system which can be used to model airborne
particle diffusion in atmosphere. The detailed models in KD-ADSS and the
introduction of KD-ADSS can be found in the following references.
Sihang Qiu, Bin Chen, Zhengqiu Zhu, Yuan Wang and Xiaogang Qiu. Source term
estimation using air concentration measurements during nuclear accident. (doi:
10.1007/s10967-016-4941-z)
Sihang Qiu, Bin Chen, Rongxiao Wang, Zhengqiu Zhu, Yuan Wang and Xiaogang
Qiu. Estimating contaminant source in chemical industry park using UAV-based
monitoring platform, artificial neural network and atmospheric dispersion simulation.
(doi: 10.1039/c7ra05637k)
Sihang Qiu, Zhen Li, Liang Ma, Zhengqiu Zhu, Bin Chen and Xiaogang Qiu.
Large-Scale Pedestrian Evacuation Modeling During Nuclear Leakage Accident.
First of all, the KD-ADSS uses a series of puffs to approximate an airborne
plume of gaseous pollutants. Our system is very suitable for an
industrial-cluster-scale atmospheric dispersion simulation. As for a chemical
cluster, it is a small-scale scene. Therefore, our system is able to simulate
dispersions in a chemical cluster with satisfactory accuracy and efficiency.
Secondly, data outputs from PHAST are really inconvenient and difficult.
Considering this situation, importing data and outputting data in our system are
very user-friendly and quite easy.
Third, our system has been validated by the commercial software, the
Indianapolis field study and a study of the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear accident.
It indicates that our system is competent for atmospheric dispersion simulation.
In order to promote the application of our system, we insist on using our system
for experiments.
The following figure is some user interfaces of KD-ADSS.
Figure. User interfaces of KD-ADSS
3. Comment 2: The authors utilized the KD-ADSS to simulate the emission
scenarios of Shanghai chemical cluster. But how to make sure that the
accuracy of the simulation data because the urban environment like
Shanghai area is very complex and the model based on Gaussian dispersion
is unfitted in such urban environment with amount of buildings and
obstacles.
Response: Thank you so much for the comment. The point that you
mentioned is quite correct. If we need to simulate emission scenarios in urban
areas and are required to obtain data in a high accuracy, it is no doubt that the
Gaussian-based model or system cannot meet the requirement. However, our
system uses a series of puffs to approximate an airborne plume of gaseous
pollutants. It is suitable for an industrial-cluster-scale atmospheric dispersion
simulation with acceptable data accuracy. And some published papers (listed
above) have proved this point. Meanwhile, our focus in this paper is to propose
an optimal AQMN design method. The illustrative case study aims to show the
feasibility of the proposed approach. Due to the lack of long-term real
measurements of inspection resources, we utilize the simulated data instead.
Therefore, our requirement on the accuracy of data is not too high in this paper.
It is acceptable that the simulated data can reflect the general trend of
concentration distribution. If reality permits, we prefer to use the real long-term
measurements, rather than the simulated data.
4. Comment3: Section 2.2 There should be a flow chart for BME for more
clearly understand.
Response: Thanks for this practical comment. It is really kind of the
reviewer to remind us of drawing a flow chart to better illustrate how the BME
works. Considering the reviewer’s suggestion, we add a flow chart to reveal the
workflow of BME analysis in SEKS-GUI. The corresponding modifications are
marked in red as follows:
1) Line 116-117: The sentence of “The software solves the fundamental
BME equations of spatiotemporal dependence analysis and mapping as
follows [32]” is revised into “The software solves the fundamental
BME equations of spatiotemporal dependence analysis and mapping as
follows [38] and the following figure 1 shows the flowchart of how the
BME analysis working in SEKS-GUI”.
Figure. Workflow of BME analysis in SEKS-GUI.
5. Comment 4: Section 4.3.3 Authors discussed the impact of facility numbers
of monitoring network on predicted accuracy. Actually, some similar
researches have been done in other papers, e.g. In the paper of "Ma, D.L.,
Deng, J.Q., Zhang, Z.X., 2013. Comparison and improvements of
optimization methods for gas emission source identification. Atmos. Environ.
81,188-198.", the authors have discussed the number and the distribution of
the sensors to the prediction and source estimation. Authors should review
these papers in Introduction section.
Response: Thanks for this comment. It is kind of the reviewer to remind us
of reviewing more papers on discussing the impact of facility numbers and the
initial distribution of monitoring network on predicted accuracy. We are really
sorry for the negligence on literature review work. Considering the reviewer’s
suggestion, we read these papers and made some changes in the introduction
section. The corresponding modifications are marked in red as follows:
1) Line 68-69: The review of these papers is added: “In view of that the
number and the initial distribution of gas sensor modules have
influenced the prediction accuracy greatly [27-29], thus they are also
discussed in the results section”.
6. Comment 5: There are some errors in English expressions.
Response: Thanks for this comment. We are sorry for not carefully
checking the expressions and the grammar. Considering the reviewer’s comment,
we have checked through the manuscript carefully and made corresponding
revisions. The modifications are marked in red as follows:
1) Line 4: The word ‘poses’ is replaced by ‘pose’.
2) Line 38: The sentence of “Generally, existing methods of establishing
an AQMN typically account for parameters related to ambient
concentrations of gaseous pollutants of interest such as atmospheric
transport and dispersion, diffusion source characteristics, secondary
reactions, deposition characteristics and local topography [13]” in the
‘Introduction section’ is changed into “Generally, existing methods of
establishing an AQMN typically consider parameters related to ambient
concentrations of gaseous pollutants, such as atmospheric transport and
dispersion, diffusion source characteristics, secondary reactions,
deposition characteristics and local topography [14]”.
3) Line 80: The word ‘collect’ is replaced by ‘conduct’.
4) Line 135-136: The sentence of “The software thus generates
informative airborne pollutant maps that completely cover the spatial
and temporal continua within their respective extents, which enables
establishment of optimization model in the next subsection” is changed
into “The software thus generates informative airborne pollutant maps that
completely cover the spatial and temporal continua within their respective
extents and also enable the establishment of optimization model in the next
subsection”.
5) Line 174: The predicate ‘is’ is changed into “are”.
6) Line 190-191: The sentence of “Thus, the release rate of during the
period of 12-24 hours is set twice of that during the period of 0-12
hours in simulation” is replaced by “Thus, the release rate during the
period of 12-24 hours is set twice of that during the period of 0-12
hours in simulation”.
7) Line 193: The sentence of “it is concluded in figure 2 that the
discharging amount of SO2 from February to July is greater that during
the period from August to January” is replaced by “it is concluded in
figure 3 that the discharging amount of SO2 from February to July is
greater than that during the period from August to January”.
8) Line 366: The word ‘reveals’ is changed into “reveal”.
9) Line 387: The word ‘play’ is changed into ‘plays’.
10) Line 405: The sentence of “Furthermore, it is verified that BME
analysis outperforms than interpolation methods mainly due to the
import of software data” is replaced by “Furthermore, it is verified that
BME analysis outperforms interpolation methods mainly due to the
import of soft data”.
We thank the editor and the reviewers for their insightful comments that have led
to significant improvements of the manuscript. Thanks for your help to our paper
processing again.
With kind regards,
The authors: Zhengqiu Zhu, Bin Chen, Sihang Qiu, Rongxiao Wang, Yiping
Wang, Liang Ma and Xiaogang Qiu.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
R. Soc. open sci.
doi:10.1098/not yet assigned
A Data-driven Approach for Optimal Design of
Integrated Air Quality Monitoring Network in a
Chemical Cluster
Zhengqiu Zhu1, Bin Chen1,*, Sihang Qiu2, Rongxiao Wang1, Yiping Wang3,
Liang Ma1 and Xiaogang Qiu1
1
College of System Engineering, National University of Defense Technology, 109 Deya Road, Changsha
410073, China
2
Faculty of Electrical Engineering,Web Information Systems, Mathematics and Computer Science, TU
DELFT, 2628 XE Delft, The Netherlands
3
The Naval 902 Factory, Shanghai, China
Keywords: Bayesian maximum entropy, Multi-objective optimization model, Air quality monitoring
network, Atmospheric dispersion simulation system.
1
2 Summary
3 The chemical industry is of paramount importance to the world economy and this industrial sector represents a substantial
4 income source for developing countries. However, the chemical plants producing inside an industrial district pose a great
5 threat to the surrounding atmospheric environment and human health. Therefore, designing an appropriate and available
6 Air Quality Monitoring Network is essential for assessing the effectiveness of deployed pollution controlling strategies
7 and facilities. Since monitoring facilities located at inappropriate sites would affect data validity, a two-stage data-driven
8 approach constituted of the spatiotemporal technique (i.e., Bayesian Maximum Entropy) and a multi-objective
9 optimization model (i.e., maximum concentration detection capability and maximum dosage detection capability) is
10 proposed in this paper. The approach aims at optimizing the design of an Air Quality Monitoring Network (AQMN)
11 formed by gas sensor modules. Due to the lack of long-term measurement data, our developed atmospheric dispersion
12 simulation system was employed to generate simulated data for the above method. Finally, an illustrative case study was
13 implemented to illustrate the feasibility of the proposed approach, and results imply that this work is able to design an
14 appropriate Air Quality Monitoring Network with acceptable accuracy and efficiency.
15
16 1. Introduction
17 Long-term violations of air quality standards with respect to industrial production emissions have posed a great threat to
18 the management of a chemical industrial cluster. Indeed, the byproducts produced during the chemical production
19 processes are noxious, even sometimes highly toxic, and they are often discharged to the nearby atmospheric
20 environments without purification treatment. As a result, the air quality in developing countries where the control on
21 industrial pollution is absent or very low, is extremely poor [1], leading to substantial health problems for the residents [2]
22 and to the potential destruction of the ecosystem. Therefore, it is urgent for environmental authorities to come up with
23 effective atmospheric pollution controlling measures that can ensure safe production, provide intelligent decisions and
24 maintain social stability [3].
25 Faced with this situation, governments in developing countries have introduced a series of measures to abate
26 atmospheric pollution [4, 5]. These measures include promulgation of standards, norms and emergency plans for
27 environmental quality as well as air quality monitoring and control [6]. One of the most substantial tasks is the creation of
28 an Air Quality Monitoring Networks (AQMN) to detect and monitor the disposed atmospheric pollutants in the chemical
29 cluster for environmental protection authorities. Objectives and necessities of such monitoring networks are reported
30 frequently in the literature [7-11] and can be summarized as follows: (i) Objectives related to air pollution legislation,
31 long-term plan of land use and the announcement of emergency situations; (ii) The evaluation of exposure of population
32 and other potential receptors; (iii) The controlling of emissions from significantly important sources (e.g. thermal power
33 plant); (iv) Analysis of air pollution data to conclude emission trends in air pollution or for further research.
34 Moreover, the minimization of network cost covered by these objectives has been always reinterpreted as a constraint
*Bin Chen (nudtcb9372@gmail.com).
† College of System Engineering, National University of Defense Technology, 109 Deya Road, Changsha 410073, China
1
35 on the available budget [6, 12]. Previous methods in the literature lacked in accomplishing the task of designing a
36 network capable of fulfilling all of the objectives above. Most of the reported methods applied to specific situations
37 wherein one or two of the previous objectives are considered [13].
38 Generally, existing methods of establishing an AQMN typically consider parameters related to ambient concentrations
39 of gaseous pollutants, such as atmospheric transport and dispersion, diffusion source characteristics, secondary reactions,
40 deposition characteristics and local topography [14]. The objective of these network design methods is usually aiming at
41 identifying the sites of maximum contaminant concentration, maximum contaminant dosage and maximum population
42 protection as well as covering the maximum urban areas with the minimum number of monitoring stations [7, 15-20].
43 Among the previous works on an AQMN design, Goldstein [21] designed an AQMN in the greater London area based
44 on the concept of a spatial correlation analysis. A statistical measure of information content was used to evaluate the
45 availability of a particular AQMN in Canada [22]. Moreover, interpolation techniques were taken in Netherlands when
46 assessing the errors in the spatial analysis [23]. Afterwards, air quality simulation models and population exposure
47 information were applied to generate representative combined patterns; and then McElroy et al. applied the concepts of
48 ‘sphere of influence’ (SOI) and ‘figure of merit’ (FOM) to determine the minimum numbers of monitoring stations
49 required in urban areas [24]. A methodology which involves the multiple-criteria method, spatial correlation technique in
50 conjunction with fuzzy analytic hierarchy process was also used to determine the optimum number of ambient air quality
51 stations [12]. To sidestep the problem of specifying a particular design objective or some conflicted objectives, Le and
52 Zidek [25] proposed an entropy-based Bayesian optimization method to maximize the uncertainty reduction when
53 selecting a number of stations. Later on, Ainslie et al. applied the method of Le and Zidek to the spatial redesign of the
54 AQMN with two-decade long dataset [26]. It could be drawn that most of these methods focused on optimizing the
55 number and layout of fixed monitoring stations for urban areas and most of these methods required complete sequence
56 datasets.
57 However, the ambient air quality monitoring problem in our work is totally different from the domains of research
58 mentioned above. In this paper, a data-driven method is introduced to design an integrated AQMN wherein both high-
59 accuracy air quality monitoring stations and gas sensor modules are modelled for a chemical cluster. Due to the lack of
60 long-term measurements, our developed atmospheric dispersion simulation system is utilized to generate simulated
61 historical dataset based on the results of trends analysis. The dataset collected by gas sensor modules cannot guarantee the
62 completeness and continuity when considering the actual situation. Thus, Bayesian Maximum Entropy (BME) is
63 introduced to generate predicted concentration distribution of gaseous pollutants under this condition of dataset. Finally, a
64 multi-objective optimization model (i.e., maximum concentration detection capability and maximum dosage detection
65 capability) aiming at optimizing the monitoring network of gas sensor modules is built up on account of the predicted
66 concentration distribution over the study area. When latest measurements of gas sensor modules are imported, the
67 monitoring network would be redesigned accordingly after conducting the BME process and multi-objective optimization
68 process. In view of that the number and the initial distribution of gas sensor modules have influenced the prediction
69 accuracy greatly [27-29], thus they are also discussed in the results section. The proposed data-driven method, which
70 involves two kinds of inspection resources, is a supplement of existing monitoring approaches, and greatly improves the
71 validity of monitoring data.
72 The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the main modelling process of the proposed
73 data-driven method. Afterwards, datasets and experimental setups are elaborated in Section 3. Subsequently, results and
74 discussions are conducted in Section 4. Finally, conclusions and future lines of research are discussed in Section 5.
75 2. Methods
76 In this section, a data-driven approach based on the BME method is presented to acquire the spatiotemporal concentration
77 distribution of gaseous pollutants in a chemical cluster by importing long-term monitoring data from multi-monitoring
78 spots. With the temporal-spatial distribution of airborne contaminants, the optimal layout of gas sensor modules can be
79 determined based on different optimization targets. Together with the fixed monitoring stations, an integrated monitoring
80 network is built up to conduct valid monitoring of gaseous pollutants in a chemical cluster.
81 Long-term real measurements of gas sensor modules are absent in this study, and thus it is impossible to conduct BME
82 analysis with real data. Fortunately, monitoring measurements collected by fixed monitoring stations in conjunction with
83 historical meteorological data can be applied to estimate the parameters of diffusion source term (i.e. location and release
84 rate) of a particular gaseous pollutant through source estimation methods. Interested readers are referred to our previous
85 researches [30-32], wherein more technical and theoretical details are introduced. Then, the source term as well as
86 historical meteorological data is imported to our developed atmospheric dispersion simulation system as inputs. After
87 simulation, the generated concentration distribution of a particular pollutant serves as simulated historical concentration
88 distribution data. Moreover, the concentration data extracted at locations of gas sensor modules is taken as the historical
89 monitoring measurements and would be served as inputs in BME analysis.
90 2.1. KD-ADSS atmospheric dispersion simulation software
91 In order to simulate atmospheric dispersion process of gaseous pollutants, KD-ADSS (KD Atmospheric Dispersion
92 Simulation System) is used to model airborne particle diffusion in atmosphere. Specifically, KD-ADSS is a Gaussian-
93 model based simulation system developed by National University of Defense Technology. The simulation tool has been
94 validated by the commercial software PHAST, the Indianapolis field study and a study of the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear
95 accident. Moreover, the system uses a series of puffs to approximate an airborne plume of gaseous pollutants. It is
96 essential to denote g (t , z, <U+03B8> , ts ) as the dispersion function of a single puff with unit release rate, where ts means the time
97 when puff starts to disperse; <U+03B8> ={l , q(t )} represents the release source formed by source location l and release rate q(t ) ;
98 and t , z denote the time and location used to calculate the theoretical concentration.
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
3
99 KD-ADSS also supports wind field generation and meteorological data import via Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW)
100 method [33]. Temporal interval between each puff is d , so the expression of function f (t , z, <U+03B8> ) can be written as:
f (t , z, <U+03B8> ) ˜ <U+2211> i =0 qi g (t , z, <U+03B8> , id )
n -1
(2.1)
101 where qi denotes the mass of airborne contaminant of puff i; n is number of puffs, which satisfies that release duration
102 equals to n × d . Moreover, following relation should be achieved.
( i +1)d
<U+222B>d
i
q(t )dt = qi (2.2)
103 2.2. Bayesian maximum entropy
104 In air quality studies, the concentration distribution of a particular pollutant, such as sulfur dioxide (hereafter, this
105 particular pollutant is served as the research subject), is represented in the form of a spatiotemporal random field (S/TRF)
106 X ( p) which assumes values at space/time points p = ( s, t ) , where s is location vector while t denotes time [34].
107 Generally, environmental protection authorities are more concerned with the estimation values of a particular pollutant at
108 unmeasured locations through analysing available datasets and physical knowledge. The estimation process leads to a
109 spatiotemporal map which presents the concentration distribution of a specific pollutant in space and time. BME, a space-
110 time data analysis method in a modern statistical framework introduced by Christakos [34, 35], provides an effective,
111 efficient and accurate way for the estimation of concentration distribution of gaseous pollutants. It is worth noting that
112 BME has already been proved to perform much better in a spatiotemporal analysis compared to the Kriging technique and
113 interpolation approaches, especially in situation where the dataset cannot guarantee completeness and continuity [36].
114 The publicly available SEKS-GUI software library [37] (i.e., a non-commercial Matlab-based software package) is
115 utilized in this paper to implement the space-time BME analysis. The software solves the fundamental BME equations of
116 spatiotemporal dependence analysis and mapping as follows [38] and the following figure 1 shows the flowchart of how
117 the BME analysis working in SEKS-GUI.
<U+F8F1><U+F8F4> d<U+03C7> ( g - g )e µ g =
T
0
<U+F8F2> µT g
(2.3)
<U+F8F4><U+F8F3> d<U+03C7><U+03BE> s e - Af K ( p) = 0
118 where g is a vector of ga -function ( a = 1, 2,... ) and g denotes the statistical expectation; µ is a vector of µ a -
119 coefficients that depends on the space-time coordinates and is related to g (i.e., the µ a indicates the relative significance
120 of each ga -functions in the composite solution sought); the <U+03BE> s represents the site-specific knowledge bases available; A
121 is a normalization parameter; and fK is the attribute probability density function (PDF) at each point. The parameters of
122 g and <U+03BE> s are inputs to the equation, whereas the unknowns are the parameters of µ and fK across space and time.
123 BME analysis has a wide range of applications because the fundamental equations make no restrictive assumptions
124 about the underlying probability distributions (i.e., non-Gaussian laws are automatically incorporated) and the shape of
125 the space-time predictor (i.e., non-linear predictors are allowed). Therefore, the BME framework is able to handle with a
126 broader scope of knowledge bases (KB) types and uncertain data [39].
127 General KB (G-KB) and site-specific KB (S-KB) are integrated in the fundamental BME equations. Generally, the G-
128 KB includes physical laws, theoretical models of space-time dependence (e.g., covariance, semivariogram and etc.),
129 empirical relations, and logic-based assertions that are concerned with the pollution X ( p) . The S-KB usually consists of
130 observed hard data and soft data (i.e., measurements with a significant amount of uncertainty). In our study, the G-KB
131 contains theoretical covariance models while the S-KB includes airborne pollutant data.
132 SEKS-GUI represents the prediction grid by the space-time vectors pk , in which case the fundamental BME equations
133 compute the complete prediction PDF f K at each pk . After determining the objective of study and PDF f K , predictions
134 of X ( p) can be derived at each spatiotemporal node pk of mapping grid.
135 The software thus generates informative airborne pollutant maps that completely cover the spatial and temporal
136 continua within their respective extents and also enable the establishment of optimization model in the next subsection.
137 2.3. Integrated air quality monitoring network
138 In this subsection, two objectives are proposed to optimize the design of an AQMN of gas sensor modules based on the
139 results of BME analysis. In conjunction with the fixed monitoring stations, an integrated air quality monitoring network
140 with the ability of global and effective inspection in a chemical cluster is built up.
141 2.3.1 Maximum concentration detection capability
142 Maximum concentration detection capability (CDC) is defined as the most frequent polluted grids captured by an
143 optimal AQMN of gas sensor modules wherein the pollutant levels are remarkably exceeding the threshold value of
144 standard value or mean value. The model, based on this objective, is established as follows:
Max oCDC = <U+2211> i =1 d i
T
(2.4)
R. Soc. open sci.
=s.t. d i <U+2211> j<U+2208>M i
y j <U+2200>i (2.5)
<U+2211>
J
j =1
yj = Q (2.6)
y j <U+2208> {0,1} <U+2200>j (2.7)
145 where the notation of d i is a variable indicating the number of grids where the pollutant level exceeding the threshold
146 value of standard value is detected in the i th month; T is the total number of months in a year; yj is a binary integer that
147 indicates whether a gas sensor is placed in grid j; J denotes the total number of grids in study area; Mi is the set of grids
148 in the i th month with a pollutant level greater than the threshold of standard value or mean value; and Q is the upper limit
149 of the number of gas sensor modules in an AQMN.
150 2.3.2 Maximum dosage detection capability
151 Some areas may have a low incidence of high-level pollution but a large dosage due to long-term exposure [40].
152 Therefore, using the previous mentioned the objective, CDC, alone when designing an AQMN may be inadequate. The
153 objective and the model for maximum dosage detection capability (DDC) can be formulated as follows:
Max oDDC = <U+2211> j<U+2208>N y j (2.8)
s.t. C j = <U+2211> i =1 Cij
T
(2.9)
j <U+2208> N , if C j = ( <U+2211> j =1 C j )/ | J |
J
(2.10)
<U+2211>
J
j =1
yj = Q (2.11)
y j <U+2208> {0,1} <U+2200>j (2.12)
154 where the notation of Cij represents the pollutant level at gird j in the i th month. The first and second constraints indicate
155 that the notation of N is the set of grids with an accumulated dosage pollutant level greater than the threshold of mean
156 value. The third and fourth constraints are the same as those defined in the upper sub-subsection.
157 Of these two single objective models described above, the CDC and DDC can be applied independently or combined
158 into a multi-objective model. In this paper, the combination of the two objectives seems to have a little impact on the final
159 result in our experiments. Therefore, we utilize the different single objective to design an AQMN of gas sensor modules
160 respectively.
161 3. Datasets and experimental setups
162 In this section, datasets and experimental setups utilized in this research are elaborated in detail, consisting of real
163 datasets collected from the Shanghai chemical cluster, simulated datasets generated by KD-ADSS, setup of study area
164 and setup of SEKS-GUI software library.
165 3.1. Actual datasets
166 The actual dataset was collected by environmental protection authority in the Shanghai chemical cluster, including up to
167 109 categories of airborne pollutants as well as meteorological data from December 2015 to November 2016 at five fixed
168 monitoring stations. These air quality monitoring stations were constructed according to the regional project for air
169 quality conservation, established by empirical judgment and the governmental law [4]. After projecting the WGS84
170 geographic coordinates into UTM Cartesian coordinates, the resulting locations of these monitoring stations are listed in
171 table 1 with some additional information.
172 High-accuracy reactors contained in these fixed monitoring stations are able to collect up to 118 categories of airborne
173 pollutants (e.g., VOCs, NOx, SO2 and etc.). The measurement interval of these facilities lasts no longer than a few
174 seconds, which can be considered as continuous collections. Therefore, these data are suitable for trend analysis (e.g.,
175 hourly average, daily average, monthly average and annually average analysis), which can provide substantial
176 information for the following experiment setups. The total amount of the dataset is 20430248 entries while the available
177 data contains 20290164 entries. The ineffective data was associated with the sites where temporary failures, warm-up of
178 devices or stations working on a non-systematic temporal basis existed.
179 3.2. Simulated datasets
180 To simulate dispersion scenarios of a particular gaseous pollutant (e.g., sulfur dioxide), the information of emission
181 source <U+03B8> (i.e., the location of emission source and the release rate of emission source), meteorological parameters (i.e.,
182 wind direction d and wind speed v ) and the environmental parameters (e.g., atmospheric stability and terrain type) must
183 be considered.
184 Our previous works on source estimation methods [30-32] enable us to predict the locations of emission sources and
185 the release rates of emission sources at the same time. However, the prediction accuracy of release rate is rather low
186 compared with that of location. Therefore, the release rates of the predicted emission spots are assumed to vary from 0 to
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
5
187 5 g · s -1 according to the results of hourly-averaged concentration trend analysis and monthly-averaged concentration
188 trend analysis shown in figure 2 and figure 3 based on actual datasets. It can be concluded from figure 2 that the
189 discharging of chemical plants clearly has temporal characteristics. The discharging amount of atmospheric pollutants in
190 the time unit of 12-24 hours is far greater than that in the time unit of 0-12 hours. Thus, the release rate during the period
191 of 12-24 hours is set twice of that during the period of 0-12 hours in simulation. Moreover, through analysing the
192 monthly-averaged concentration data of SO2, it is concluded in figure 3 that the discharging amount of SO2 from
193 February to July is greater than that during the period from August to January. Therefore, the value of the release rate in
194 summer months is set larger than that in winter months.
195 Gaussian diffusion coefficients s y , s z , posing a substantially impact on dispersion of a particular air contaminant, can
196 be expressed as below [41]:
<U+F8F1><U+F8F4>s =y ( Dx ) a y Dx (1 + by Dx ) y
-c
<U+F8F2> (3.1)
<U+F8F4><U+F8F3>s =
z ( Dx ) a z Dx (1 + bz Dx ) - cz
197 where Dx denotes the downwind distance of the interest point; the parameters of ay , by , cy , az, bz, cz depend on the
198 environmental conditions (i.e., atmospheric stability and terrain type, as shown in table 2). According to the terrain type
199 (i.e., urban) and atmospheric stability (i.e., C) of the Shanghai chemical cluster, the actual values of these parameters in
200 the third row are selected.
201 Finally, all the input data including the emission sources, historical meteorological data, environmental parameters
202 and Gaussian diffusion coefficients are imported to conduct hourly dispersions for a decade in KD-ADSS. Thus, a total of
203 approximate 86,400 dispersion scenarios (i.e., 24( hour ) × 30( day ) × 12( month ) × 10( year ) ) are obtained. Further, the
204 simulated historical dataset is utilized to produce monthly-averaged SO2 measurements at a total of 60 monitoring
205 locations of gas sensor modules. Finally, the first nine-year monthly-averaged measurements at monitoring locations of
206 gas sensor modules as well as geospatial data would be imported to conduct the BME analysis and generate the prediction
207 measurements at unmeasured locations in the tenth year.
208 3.3. Experimental setups
209 3.1.1 Setup of study area
210 Similar to previous researches [31, 42], a chemical cluster in Shanghai is selected as our study area in this paper. Figure 4
211 shows a refinery GIS map of a chemical cluster in Shanghai, China. Through investigating the emissions of SO2 and
212 referring to the main byproducts information of chemical plants, five possible SO2 emission sources are located in this
213 area. On the map, the 19 small circles are the complete set of discharge points for all contaminants, among which the five
214 blue circles are the SO2 discharge spots. After projecting the WGS84 geographic coordinates into UTM Cartesian
215 coordinates, the resulting locations of all the candidate sources are listed in table 3 with concrete information. Moreover,
216 the triangles indicate the fixed high-accuracy air quality monitoring stations; and the area marked by the black
217 quadrilateral box is the main working area of this district, while the area beneath the working area is the sea. Meanwhile,
218 an illustrative picture of the two inspection resources is shown in figure 5. The gas sensor modules [43] (the sensor
219 probes are produced by Alphasense – The Sensor Technology Company) utilized in this research are provided by
220 SINGOAN Electronic Technology Co., Ltd, while the high-accuracy monitoring stations [44] are the product of Beijing
221 Safety equipment manufacturing Co., Ltd. These inspection resources (i.e., five monitoring stations and a total number of
222 sixty gas sensor modules) are operating to inspect 55 chemical plants. It is worth noting that the high-accuracy
223 monitoring stations as well as gas sensor modules are regularly calibrated by technical staff or automatic calibration
224 devices to ensure the valid collections of monitoring data. Besides, it is also worth noting that the generated
225 measurements of gas sensor modules would be considered as hard data in this paper when utilized in the BME analysis.
226 However, in real circumstances, a certain proportion of the dataset collected by gas sensor modules should be considered
227 as soft data because of the incompleteness and discontinuity in data. The monitoring data of the five fixed monitoring
228 stations are utilized as inputs in source estimation methods when determining the main emission sources of SO2. Through
229 calculation and our investigation, the chimney of the sulphuric acid recovery (SAR) system and Waste incinerator for
230 acrylonitrile (AR) were the major locations contributing to the emission of SO2. Then, the source term and historical
231 meteorological data are imported into KD-ADSS to generate simulated historical concentration data of SO2 within the
232 area of Shanghai chemical cluster in subsection 3.2.
233 The study area of the Shanghai chemical cluster can be further simplified as a 2000m × 3000m rectangle on account of
234 experimental conditions. The illustration of this simplified study area is shown in figure 6. Through importing monitoring
235 measurements of the five fixed monitoring stations as well as historical meteorological data into the source estimation
236 method, main release spots in the past year were calculated. Specifically, the red circles represent the two most frequent
237 release spots calculated by source estimation method (1 denotes Waste incinerator for acrylonitrile (AR) and 2 denotes
238 the chimney of the sulphuric acid recovery (SAR) system). The approximate locations of these two release spots are at
239 (400m, 400m) and (200m, 300m) respectively. Moreover, the rectangle of study area is divided into 150 quadrate grids
240 wherein the grid size is 200m × 200m . The initial layout of the gas sensor modules is designed as shown in figure 6
241 according to the results of wind field analysis (the analysis result is exhibited in figure 7). Besides, it is assumed that all
242 of the gas sensor modules are positioned at the height of 20 meters in the centre of each grid.
243 3.1.2 Setup of SEKS-GUI software library
R. Soc. open sci.
244 SEKS-GUI implements the BME methodology for spatiotemporal analysis. The workflow of how this analysis works in
245 SEKS-GUI is presented as below.
246 Firstly, the hard data information with exact measurements (i.e., the generated monitoring measurements at monitoring
247 locations of first nine-year simulated dataset), the soft data with certain uncertainty (i.e., the soft data is absent in this
248 study) and output GIS grid (i.e., information about the study area) are imported to SEKS-GUI. Then, the data is detrended
249 and brought from raw input information into suitable processing form. For the detrending process, Gaussian kernel
250 smoothing is applied across the dataset. Moreover, a data transformation aiming at reshaping the detrended data set from
251 the original space of values (original-space) into a space where their distribution resembles a Gaussian one
252 (transformation-space) is implemented. Subsequently, a covariance analysis is conducted to investigate correlation
253 patterns among the data in the next stage. Finally, we have to select and initialize the type of BME prediction. Four
254 different prediction types are offered in the software library, namely, BME mode, BME Moments, BME PDF as well as
255 BME confidence intervals and they are ranked with respect to the time and complicity required for the computations,
256 starting with the fastest and simplest one and ending with the most time-consuming and complicated. In this study, the
257 most time-consuming and complicated type (i.e., BME confidence intervals) is chosen to improve the prediction accuracy.
258 Most importantly, confidence interval option is of vital importance to the predicted results. Setting a higher confidence, it
259 will bring users with more accurate predicted values, but may also lead to the failure of prediction on some girds because
260 the predicted results cannot pass the confidence testing. In contrast, setting a lower confidence, it will ease the
261 computation burden and provide predicted results at all grids, but may also lead to unacceptable predicted values at low
262 accuracy level. In this paper, 95 percentage of confidence level is selected. In visualization, SEKS-GUI offers a bundle of
263 mapping options to display the BME prediction results once the BME output MAT-file is loaded. In this study, the mean
264 of the prediction posterior PDF at each output grid node is the main focus.
265 Moreover, apart from the visualization results, SEKS-GUI also offers the option to download the available data during
266 the calculation process for further research. In this study, the available data is utilized to design the optimal AQMNs.
267 4. Results and Discussion
268 4.1. Results of atmospheric contaminants dispersion simulation
269 To acquire the simulated mean concentration distribution of SO2 during the past ten years, about 86,400 dispersion
270 scenarios based on historical meteorological data were run through our developed KD-ADSS. Figure 8 shows the
271 simulated mean concentration distribution of SO2 in January, June, July and December of 2016. To better exhibit the
272 dispersion effect, the concentration data was logarithmically processed and sophisticatedly interpolated. Moreover, the
273 colour scale is not fixed in every colour-bar of figure 8 to make comparisons among the four sub-figures. In figure 8, a
274 darker colour indicates higher pollutant’s concentration. It can be concluded from the colour-bar that black and red are
275 darker than yellow and white, revealing that the concentration of the former is greater than that of the latter. Thus, it is
276 concluded that the northwest part and the southeast part of study area were seriously affected by the gaseous pollutant of
277 SO2 due to the influence of prevailing monsoons in Shanghai. By contrast, the northeast part of study area is less polluted.
278 After obtaining the simulated dispersion data, concentration data at the monitoring spots of gas sensor modules
279 extracted from the dataset serves as hard data in SEKS-GUI software library. The total amount of the simulated
280 monitoring data used in SEKS-GUI is 6480 entries (i.e., 60( sites ) × 12( month ) × 9( year ) ).
281 4.2. Results of BME analysis
282 After the first nine-year dataset of simulated monthly-averaged monitoring concentration of gas sensor modules as well as
283 geospatial information of prediction grids are loaded as inputs, the detrending stage, transformation stage and covariance
284 analysis stage were subsequently carried out. After that, BME prediction of concentration distribution in the whole study
285 area in the tenth year was conducted and visualization of the results is shown in figure 9. The figure illustrates the mean
286 concentration distribution trend in every month of the last year - 2016. It is worth noting that the concentration data
287 utilized in this figure is the predicted raw data without interpolation and logarithmic processing. As can be seen from the
288 figure, a darker colour indicates higher concentration of a gaseous pollutant. Obviously, it can be summarized that the
289 northwest part of study area was severely affected during the summer season because of the prevailing southeast
290 monsoon while the southeast part of study area was severely influenced during the winter season due to the prevailing
291 northwest monsoon. Moreover, the concrete concentration data and geospatial data of this figure are exported to the
292 following research of designing a valid AQMN.
293 4.3. Results of multi-objective optimization model
294 4.3.1 Results of an optimal AQMN
295 With respect to the first objective-maximum concentration detection capability, the essence of the corresponding mixed
296 integer linear program (MILP) is to detect the most frequent polluted grids wherein high concentration value remarkably
297 excessing the standard value or the average value often occurs. After importing the dataset acquired from the BME
298 prediction results to the corresponding MILP, the optimal design of an AQMN on account of maximum concentration
299 detection capability is exhibited in figure 10. Compared to the initial layout of gas sensor modules, the monitoring spots
300 which are initially positioned at the northeast part are removed in this figure. Moreover, most of the gas sensor modules
301 are located in the northwest and southeast direction of the release spots of SO2 while several gas sensor modules are
302 positioned in the same grids or near the grids wherein the release spots of SO2 are located. In the Shanghai chemical
303 industrial park, the prevailing monsoons are the summer monsoon in the southeast direction and the winter monsoon in
304 the northwest direction respectively. The result confirms that most concentration distribution of a specific gaseous
305 pollutant is distributed in the downside direction of the wind. Furthermore, the layout of this optimal AQMN may result
306 from the two release spots close to each other. A great variation in layout of this optimal AQMN would occur if the two
307 release spots are located apart from each other.
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
7
308 On account of the second objective-maximum dosage detection capability, the essence of the corresponding MILP is to
309 detect the grids wherein the accumulative dosage value ranks in the top list compared to other grids. After importing the
310 dataset acquired from the BME prediction results to the corresponding MILP, the optimal design of an AQMN
311 considering the target of maximum dosage detection capability is shown in figure 11. Compared to the optimal AQMN of
312 CDC, the structure of the optimal AQMN detecting maximum dosage has barely changed. The most grids wherein long
313 term exposure occurs are also located in the northwest and southeast part of the chemical cluster. Slight variations in
314 layout of the optimal AQMN appearing close to the release sources may result from the height distance between the
315 release spots and the monitoring spots. It leads to a minor possibility of high accumulative dosage values occurring at the
316 grids which are close to the release spots.
317 Further, the results which reveal slight differences between the optimal AQMN of CDC and the optimal AQMN of
318 DDC indicate that it is not necessary to combine the two objectives into a multi-objective model in this paper. However,
319 this practice is only specific in this illustrative case study; further analysis is required to find a compromise solution
320 between the two objectives. For example, a utility function can be derived, and then the compromise solution can be
321 obtained by incorporating the trade-off curve. Besides, the fuzzy analytic hierarchy process method (F-AHP) can also
322 assist the decision-making process of designing an AQMN [45]. However, such a decision analysis process is beyond the
323 scope of this work.
324 Moreover, it must be some concerns about the extreme circumstances that the dispersion of gaseous pollutants may
325 spread to the northeast part of the study area without being detected under these two optimal air quality monitoring
326 networks. This is the case, but there are also three high-accuracy air quality monitoring stations fixed in this direction.
327 Therefore, the integrated AQMN constituted of gas sensor modules and high-accuracy fixed monitoring stations is valid
328 and available.
329 4.3.2 Impact of initial layout of monitoring network on predicted accuracy
330 The influence of initial layout of AQMN on prediction accuracy of BME predicted monitoring data is tested in this sub-
331 subsection. As shown in figure 12, the comparison between the generated simulation data and the BME predicted data is
332 clearly demonstrated. Obviously, the BME prediction data closely matches the generated simulation data, the mean
333 square error (MSE) as well as linear regression coefficient (R-square) of which is 1.243 and 0.8935 respectively. The
334 result confirms that the BME analysis can predict the measurements of unmeasured spots accurately with the information
335 of measured spots and physical knowledge. Meanwhile, the result also indicates that the initial layout of the AQMN is
336 reasonable for further design.
337 If the wind field analysis is not implemented, less information is acquired about the most frequent grids in which high
338 concentration of gaseous pollutants would often occur. As can be seen in figure 13, the initial layout of gas sensor
339 modules is generated by MATLAB randomly. Subsequently, the first nine-year measurements of gas sensor modules at
340 the corresponding locations were imported in SEKS-GUI library to generate BME prediction of monitoring data at
341 unmeasured spots in the tenth year. Moreover, the corresponding BME prediction data is also used to conduct linear
342 regression with the generated simulation data, the comparison between which is shown in figure 14. It can be concluded
343 that the BME prediction data is not well matched with the generated simulation data, the mean square error (MSE) as
344 well as linear regression coefficient (R-square) of which is 8.7511 and 0.5074 respectively. By contrast, the figures of
345 MSE and R-square when initial layout of gas sensor modules is designed based on wind trend analysis outperform those
346 under this randomly distributed condition. At meantime, the corresponding optimal AQMN based on maximum
347 concentration detection capability and maximum dosage detection capability is shown in figure 15. Comparing with the
348 optimal layout in figure 10 and 11, the optimal layout of optimal AQMN under this random condition witnesses a
349 contrary trend, wherein most of gas sensor modules are located in the northeast and southwest part of study area, leading
350 to inaccurate collection of measurements.
351 4.3.3 Impact of facility numbers of monitoring network on predicted accuracy
352 In this sub-subsection, the impact of facility numbers of monitoring network on prediction accuracy of BME predicted
353 monitoring data is investigated. If the environmental protection authority does not have a sufficient budget on designing
354 such a monitoring network consisting of 60 gas sensor modules, a design plan of fewer facility numbers will be sensible.
355 Based on results of wind trend analysis, a 30-facility-number scenario and a 45-facility-number scenario shown in figure
356 16 are set up. Subsequently, the first nine-year measurements of gas sensor modules at the corresponding locations (30
357 locations and 45 locations respectively) were imported in SEKS-GUI library to generate BME prediction of monitoring
358 data at unmeasured spots in the tenth year. Moreover, the corresponding BME prediction data is also employed to
359 conduct linear regression with the generated simulation data, the comparison between which is shown in figure 17. The
360 figures of MSE for the 30-facility-number scenario and the 45-facility-number scenario are 3.0062 and 1.7703
361 respectively while the figures of R-square in these two scenarios are 0.6265 and 0.781. Another difference in these two
362 scenarios is that measurements of several spots are unpredictable in the 30-facility-number scenario because some areas
363 have scarce known measured data which cannot support the prediction of reliable results at unmeasured locations.
364 Considering the results in sub-subsection 4.3.2 (i.e., 1.243 for MSE and 0.8935 for R-square in 60-facility-number
365 scenario), when the facility number of a monitoring network rises, the observable decline in MSE and the substantial
366 increase in R-square reveal that the facility number of a monitoring network has an inextricably bounded up with
367 prediction accuracy of BME predicted measurements, where the prediction accuracy increases as the facility number of a
368 monitoring network rises.
369 4.4. Discussions
370 In this section, an illustrative case including 86,400 atmospheric dispersion scenarios of sulfur dioxide, a BME analysis
371 experiment and the AQMN design experiments was implemented to verify the effectiveness and practicability of the
R. Soc. open sci.
372 proposed data-driven method for optimal design of an integrated air quality monitoring network. Through analysing the
373 experimental results, several important findings and drawbacks could be observed and summarized as follows.
374 The results in subsection 4.1, subsection 4.2 as well as wind trend analysis reveal that the study area – Shanghai
375 chemical cluster is substantially influenced by southeast monsoon and northwest monsoon in different seasons (i.e., the
376 wind in this area has high intensities and low directions variability). Inspired by this phenomenon, it is reasonable to
377 select the most influenced locations where monitoring devices are deployed to increase the spatiotemporal resolution of
378 an air quality monitoring network. The solution is pragmatic in this specific case, but probably not suitable for locations
379 where the wind has low intensities and high directions variability.
380 Another finding is that the proposed data-driven method is able to assist a decision-making process for determining an
381 appropriate AQMN and assist the daily management work of environmental protection authorities based on results in sub-
382 subsection 4.3.1. Concentration data of unmeasured spots would be accurately predicted in the BME analysis results on
383 account of long-term measurements at monitoring sites and some physical knowledge if the initial layout of monitoring
384 network is well designed.
385 Learning from the results of sub-subsection 4.3.2, an astonishing finding is that the initial layout of gas sensor modules
386 substantially affects the validity of monitoring measurements and further affects the prediction accuracy of BME method.
387 Moreover, it is worth noting that wind field analysis plays an important role in the initial layout of the AQMN. It ensures
388 that most of the gas sensor modules are located in the downside direction of the prevailing wind in the study area. Besides,
389 as time goes on, more measurements at monitoring sites can be imported to predict the variation trend in concentration
390 distribution of gaseous pollutants, and the optimal design of an AQMN would change correspondingly, which can reflect
391 the timely spatial and temporal characteristics of gaseous pollutants in the chemical cluster. Therefore, the data-driven
392 method not only assists the environmental protection authorities to better inspect the chemical production activities, but
393 also avoid the leakage of hazardous substances effectively.
394 Learning from the results of sub-subsection 4.3.3, the last finding is that the facility number of a monitoring network
395 remarkably influences the prediction accuracy of BME predictions. It is concluded that the prediction accuracy improves
396 as the facility number of a monitoring network increases. As a result of that, for better prediction on unmeasured spots
397 and overall inspection on a chemical cluster, it is better to employ more inspection resources if the financial budget of the
398 environmental protection authority is permitted.
399 Yet, there are some limitations in our results. First, the measurements of gas sensor modules in this study were
400 generated from simulated scenarios. Thus, when incorporating various real-world uncertainties and constraints, the
401 prediction accuracy of the BME analysis may change slightly. Moreover, the optimal design of an AQMN would be
402 influenced correspondingly. Second, only one particular gaseous pollutant (i.e., sulfur dioxide) is considered in this study
403 to design an optimal AQMN. Actually, the integrated impacts of multiple gaseous pollutants on designing an optimal
404 AQMN should be considered. In that case, the optimal AQMN is able to collect valid measurements of a wide range of
405 gaseous pollutants. Furthermore, it is verified that BME analysis outperforms interpolation methods mainly due to the
406 import of soft data. Soft datasets are measurements associated with some known uncertainties, namely, faulty calibration,
407 long-term and short-term drifts that these monitoring devices suffer from. However, the reliability of the uncertain gas
408 sensor modules measurements is not discussed or testified in this research because of the utilization of simulated
409 measurements (i.e., hard data refers to measurements without deviations).
410 5. Conclusion
411 The aim of our research is to facilitate the decision-making process of designing an integrated air quality monitoring
412 network to inspect the chemical production processes and to assess the effectiveness of deployed pollution controlling
413 strategies. Previous works lack in appropriate approaches to design an integrated air quality monitoring networks for a
414 chemical industrial park. In addressing this situation, the proposed data-driven method moves forward the state of the art
415 of this domain with the following originalities: (i) The first originality is the proposed data-driven method which aims to
416 optimize the AQMN of gas sensor modules in a chemical cluster with acceptable accuracy; (ii) The second originality is
417 to incorporate BME analysis with a multi-objective optimization method, forming a two-stage processing procedure.
418 Since the lack of long-term historical monitoring data is a major problem, our developed atmospheric dispersion
419 simulation system was employed to generate simulated historical data based on the results of source estimation and wind
420 analysis. Then, an illustrative case is implemented to illustrate the feasibility of the proposed approach.
421 Results show that the BME prediction of concentration distribution of a gaseous pollutant not only reveals the
422 spatiotemporal distribution regularity of gaseous pollutants, but also provides essential data for designing an optimal
423 AQMN. It is worth noting that when the initial layout of gas sensor modules is well designed, the BME predicted data
424 can well match the real collected monitoring data. Moreover, it is noteworthy that the prediction accuracy of BME
425 methods has a tight connection with the facility number of a monitoring network. Increasing the facility number can
426 greatly improve the prediction ability of BME analysis method. Therefore, this work has been proved to have the ability
427 to facilitate a decision-making process for determining an appropriate AQMN and assist the daily inspection work for
428 environmental protection authorities.
429 Future research can lead to several directions, for instance, one can consider the impacts of multiple gaseous pollutants
430 on designing the AQMN, or another direction for further study is the actual measurements at monitoring sites of gas
431 sensor modules instead of simulated data.
432
433 Ethics. No permits or licences were required for the research and insect collection.
434 Data Accessibility. Data and codes are attached in the supporting material files. The SEKS-GUI software library is available on the
435 Website: http://140.112.63.249/SEKSGUI/SEKSHome.html; The KD-ADSS software system is available on the homepage:
436 http://testbot.cn/en/?page_id=7.
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
9
437 Authors' Contributions. Bin Chen, Xiaogang Qiu, Zhengqiu Zhu, Sihang Qiu, Rongxiao Wang and Liang Ma designed the project;
438 Zhengqiu Zhu and Sihang Qiu performed the research and designed the experiments; Zhengqiu Zhu and Bin Chen performed the
439 experiments; Zhengqiu Zhu, Yiping Wang and Rongxiao Wang analysed the data; Xiaogang Qiu gave important suggestions for
440 mathematical modelling; and Zhengqiu Zhu and Liang Ma interpreted the results and wrote the paper. All authors gave final approval
441 for publication.
442 Competing Interests. All authors declare they have no competing interests.
443 Funding. This study is supported by National Key Research & Development (R&D) Plan under Grant No. 2017YFC0803300 and the
444 National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant Nos. 71673292, 61503402, 61673388 and Guangdong Key Laboratory for
445 Big Data Analysis and Simulation of Public Opinion.
446 Acknowledgements. We thank Yuan Wang and Xiaoqiang Chen for providing access to the data and Zhen Li for insightful
447 discussions.
448
449 References
1. Hsu Angel ED, Levy MA, Sherbinin A. 2016 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2009.07.0 http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0004-6981(81)90104-
Environmental Performance Index. New Haven, 45) 9)
CT: Yale University. Available online: 13. Mofarrah A, Husain T. 2009 Methodology 24. McElroy JL, Behar JV, Meyers TC, Liu
www.epi.yale.edu. for designing air quality monitoring network. In MK. 1986 Methodology for designing air
(doi: 10.13140/RG.2.2.19868.90249 ) International Conference on Environmental & quality monitoring networks: II. Application to
2. Tong Z, Yang B, Hopke P K, Zhang KM. Computer Science. Las Vegas, Nevada, for carbon monoxide.
2017 Microenvironmental air quality impact of 14. Baldauf RW, Lane DD, Marote GA. 2001 Environ. Monit. Assess 6, 13-34.
a commercial-scale biomass heating system. Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Network (doi:10.1007/bf00394285)
Environ Pollut 220, 1112-1120. Design for Assessing Human Health Impacts 25. Le ND, Zidek JV. 2007 Statistical Analysis
(doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2016.11.025) from Exposures to Airborne Contaminants. of Environmental Space-Time Processes.
3. Zhu ZQ, Chen B, Qiu SH, Wang RX, Chen Environ. Monit. Assess 66, 63-76. (doi: Springer, New York. (doi:
FR, Wang YP, Qiu XG. 2018 An Extended 10.1023/A:1026428214799) https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-35429-8)
Chemical Plant Environmental Protection 15. Modak PM, Lohani BN. 1985 Optimization 26. Ainslie B, Reuten C, Steyn DG, Le ND,
Game on Addressing Uncertainties of Human of ambient air quality monitoring networks. Zidek JV. 2009 Application of an entropy-
Adversaries. Int.J.Environ.Res.Pub.He 15(4), Environ. Monit. Assess 5, 21-38. based Bayesian optimization technique to the
609. (doi: 10.3390/ijerph15040609) (doi: 10.1007/BF00396392) redesign of an existing monitoring network for
4. Standing Committee of the Sixth National 16. Liu MK, Avrin J, Pollack RI, Behar JV, single air pollutants. J.ENVIRON.MANAGE 90,
People’s Congress. Law of the People’s McElroy JL. 1986 Methodology for designing 2715-2729. (doi:
Republic of China on the Prevention and air quality monitoring networks: I. Theoretical https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2009.02.016 )
Control of Atmospheric Pollution. aspects. Environ. Monit. Assess 6, 1-11. (doi: 27. Ma DL, Deng JQ, Zhang ZX. 2013
Environmental Policy Collection. Availble 10.1007/BF00394284) Comparison and improvements of optimization
online: digital.library.unt.edu. 17. Kainuma Y, Shiozawa K, Okamoto S i. methods for gas emission source identification.
5. Dalton S, Tierney M. 2007 Collections: 1990 Study of the optimal allocation of ambient Atmos. Environ 81, 188-198. (doi:
Earth and Environmental Science Collection air monitoring stations. Atmos. Environ 24, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2013.09.012)
Development Policy. Nyu Libraries. Available 395-406. (doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0957- 28. Qiu SH, Chen B, Wang RX, Zhu ZQ, Wang
online: 1272(90)90047-X) Y, Qiu XG. 2018 Atmospheric dispersion
digital.library.nyu.edu/collections/policies/envs 18. Serón Arbeloa FJ, Pérez Caseiras C, Latorre prediction and source estimation of hazardous
cien.html Andrés PM. 1993 Air quality monitoring: gas using artificial neural network, particle
6. Trujillo-Ventura A, Hugh Ellis J. 1991 Optimization of a network around a swarm optimization and expectation
Multiobjective air pollution monitoring hypothetical potash plant in open countryside. maximization. Atmos. Environ 178, 158-163.
network design. Atmos. Environ 25, 469-479. Atmos. Environ 27, 729-738. (doi: (doi:
(doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0960- http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0960-1686(93)90190- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2018.01.056)
1686(91)90318-2) A) 29. Wang RX, Chen B, Qiu SH, Ma L, Zhu ZQ,
7. Darby WP, Ossenbruggen PJ, Gregory CJ. 19. Miller AA, Sager TW. 1994 Site Wang YP, Qiu XG. 2018 Hazardous Source
1974 OPTIMIZATION OF URBAN AIR Redundancy in Urban Ozone Monitoring. Air & Estimation Using an Artificial Neural Network,
MONITORING NETWORKS. Journal of the Waste 44, 1097-1102. (doi: Particle Swarm Optimization and a Simulated
Environmental Engineering Division 100, 577- 10.1080/10473289.1994.10467305) Annealing Algorithm. Atmosphere 9(4), 119.
591. 20. Harrison RM, Deacon AR. 1998 Spatial (doi: 10.3390/atmos9040119)
8. Ludwig FL, Shelar E. 1978 SITE Correlation of Automatic Air Quality 30. Qiu SH, Chen B, Zhu ZQ, Wang Y, Qiu
SELECTION FOR THE MONITORING OF Monitoring at Urban Background Sites: XG. 2016 Source term estimation using air
PHOTOCHEMICAL AIR POLLUTANTS. Implications for Network Design. Environ. concentration measurements during nuclear
Ludwig F L. Technol 19, 121-132. accident. J RADIOANAL NUCL CH 311, 165-
9. Munn RE. 1981 Design of air quality (doi: 10.1080/09593331908616664) 178. (doi: 10.1007/s10967-016-4941-z)
monitoring networks. Basingstoke, Hampshire, 21. Goldstein IF. 1982 Rationalization of the 31. Qiu SH, Chen B, Wang RX, Zhu ZQ.,
UK: Macmillan. national survey of air pollution monitoring Wang Y, Qiu XG. 2017 Estimating
10. Ott WR. 1977 Development of Criteria for network of the united kingdom using spatial contaminant source in chemical industry park
Siting Air Monitoring Stations. Journal of the correlation analysis: A case-study of the greater using UAV-based monitoring platform,
Air Pollution Control Association 27, 543-547. london area. Atmos. Environ 16, 1061–1070. artificial neural network and atmospheric
(doi: 10.1080/00022470.1977.10470453) (doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0004- dispersion simulation. RSC Adv 7, 39726-39738.
11. Seinfeld JH. 1972 Optimal location of 6981(82)90482-6) (doi: 10.1039/c7ra05637k)
pollutant monitoring stations in an airshed. 22. Pickett EE, Whiting RG. 1981 The design 32. Wang RX, Chen B, Qiu SH, Zhu ZQ, Qiu,
Atmos. Environ 6, 847-858. of cost-effective air quality monitoring XG. 2017 Data Assimilation in Air
(doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0004- networks. Environ. Monit. Assess 1, 59-74. Contaminant Dispersion Using a Particle Filter
6981(72)90056-X) (doi: 10.1007/bf00836876) and Expectation-Maximization Algorithm.
12. Mofarrah A, Husain T. 2010 A holistic 23. Van Egmond ND, Onderdelinden D. 1981 Atmosphere 8, 170.
approach for optimal design of air quality Objective analysis of air pollution monitoring (doi:10.3390/atmos8090170)
monitoring network expansion in an urban area. network data; spatial interpolation and network
Atmos. Environ 44, 432-440. (doi: density. Atmos. Environ 15, 1035-1046. (doi:
R. Soc. open sci.
33. Watson DF. 1985 A refinement of inverse 39. Christakos G, Hristopulos DT. 1998 44. Beijing safety equipment manufacturing Co.
distance weighted interpolation. Geo- Spatiotemporal environmental health modelling: Ltd. Operating Instruction of Gasmonitor.
Processing. 2, 315-327. A tractatus stochasticus. Boston, MA: Kluwer Available online:
www.crowcon.com.cn/uploadfile/2017/0515/20
34. Christakos G. 1992 In Random Field Academic Publishers. (doi: 10.1007/978-1-
170515033215213.pdf
Models in Earth Sciences. San Diego, Boston, 4757-2811-8 ) 45. Tesfamariam S, Sadiq R. 2006 Risk-based
USA: 447-458. 40. Kao JJ, Hsieh MR. 2006 Utilizing environmental decision-making using fuzzy
35. Christakos G. 1991 On certain classes of multiobjective analysis to determine an air analytic hierarchy process (F-AHP). STOCH
spatiotemporal random fields with applications quality monitoring network in an industrial ENV RES RISK A 21, 35-50. (doi:
district. Atmos Environ 40, 1092-1103. (doi: 10.1007/s00477-006-0042-9)
to space-time data processing. IEEE
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2005.11.0
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics. 03)
21 861-875. (doi: 10.1109/21.108303) 41. Carrascal MD, Puigcerver M, Puig P. 1993
36. Bogaert P, Christakos G, Jerrett M, Yu HL. Sensitivity of Gaussian plume model to
2009 Spatiotemporal modelling of ozone dispersion specifications. Theor Appl Climatol
distribution in the State of California. Atmos. 48, 147-157. (doi: 10.1007/BF00864921)
Environ 43, 2471-2480. (doi: 42. Zhu ZQ, Chen B, Reniers G, Zhang LB,
Qiu SH, Qiu XG. 2017 Playing Chemical Plant
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2009.01.049)
Environmental Protection Games with
37. Kolovos A, Skupin A, Jerrett M, Christakos Historical Monitoring Data. Int J Environ Res
G. 2010 Multi-perspective analysis and Public Health. 14, 1155. (doi:
spatiotemporal mapping of air pollution 10.3390/ijerph14101155)
monitoring data. Environ Sci Technol 44, 6738- 43. SINGOAN Electronic Technology Co., L.
6744. (doi: 10.1021/es1013328) Operating instruction of gas sensor module.
38. Kanevski M. 2008 Advanced Mapping of Available online:
Environmental Data. ISTE Ltd. and John Wiley www.singoan.com/_d27690087.html.
and Sons, Inc.
Table captions:
Table 1. Cartesian coordinates of fixed monitoring stations and additional information. (No. denotes the English
number of monitoring stations used in the following figure; X, Y represents the UTM Cartesian coordinates of
monitoring stations; Explanation denotes the English name of these monitoring stations and Code represents the
serial number loaded in our database.)
Table 2. Relationships between diffusion coefficients and atmospheric stability. (The terrain type of study area in
this research is Urban and the most frequent atmospheric stability is assumed to be D.)
Table 3. Cartesian coordinates of SO2 emission points and additional information. (No. denotes the serial number
of emission spots; X, Y represents the UTM Cartesian coordinates of emission spots; Explanation denotes the
English name of these emission spots and Main Contaminants represents the byproducts generated by different
emission spots.)
Figure captions:
Figure 1. Workflow of BME analysis in SEKS-GUI.
Figure 2. Hourly-averaged concentration trend during the past year in the Shanghai chemical cluster. (The
concentration is measured in µ g · m -3 ; The X-axis is the time series of one day while the Y-axis represents the main
atmospheric contaminants monitored by monitoring stations; The background colour of this figure is white, which
means concentration value of atmospheric pollutants is zero, moreover, and a darker area represents higher gas
concentration.)
Figure 3. Monthly-averaged concentration trend of a particular air pollutant SO2. (The concentration is measured
in µ g · m -3 ; the X-axis is the time series of a year while the Y-axis represents the averaged concentration of a
particular air contaminant SO2 monitored by monitoring stations.)
Figure 4. Refinery map of research area.
Figure 5. Inspection resources of inspection agency. ((a) is the gas sensor modules and (b) is one of the high-
accuracy air quality monitoring stations.)
Figure 6. Simplified study area used in experiments. (The grid size in this figure is 200 metres; Red points denote
main release spots of SO2; Green points represent the initial layout of gas sensor modules based on wind field
analysis.).
Figure 7. Annual wind-rose diagram for the research area. (The left vertical axis indicates the proportion of a
specific direction of wind versus all directions of wind, while the right axis in the bottom of this figure illustrates
that a specific colour in a wind direction denotes the corresponding interval of wind speed. Moreover, it is
noteworthy that the prevailing wind in the Shanghai chemical cluster is in the northwest and southeast directions.
Generally, most concentration distribution of a specific gaseous pollutant is distributed in the downside direction
of the wind. Therefore, it is possible for researchers to predict the approximate distribution of the gaseous
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
11
pollutants in a chemical cluster through analysing the regular variation of wind speed and wind direction.
Therefore, most of the gas sensor modules are initially positioned in the northwest and southeast part of the
Shanghai chemical cluster in this study.)
Figure 8. Monthly mean concentration distribution of SO2 in 2016 generated by KD-ADSS. ((a) denotes
distribution in January; (b) denotes distribution in June; (c) denotes distribution in July; (d) denotes distribution
in December.)
Figure 9. Monthly-predicted mean concentration distribution of SO2 in 2016 by importing simulated monitoring
data of gas sensor modules during the past nine years into SEKS-GUI. (From left to right, top to bottom, the sub-
figure denotes January to December in turn, the concentration is measured in µ g · m -3 .)
Figure 10. Optimal design of an AQMN on account of maximum concentration detection capability. (Green points
in this figure denote gas sensor modules.)
Figure 11. Optimal design of an AQMN on account of maximum dosage detection capability. (Green points in this
figure denote gas sensor modules.)
Figure 12. Comparison of BME predicted data and generated simulation data when initial layout of gas sensor
modules is designed based on wind trend analysis. (The concentration unit in this figure is µ g · m -3 . )
Figure 13. Initial random layout of gas sensor modules.
Figure 14. Comparison of BME predicted data and generated simulation data when initial layout of gas sensor
modules is randomly designed. (The concentration unit in this figure is µ g · m -3 . )
Figure 15. Optimal design of an AQMN when initial layout of gas sensor modules is randomly designed. (Result (a)
is acquired based on the target of maximum concentration detection capability while result (b) is acquired based
on the target of maximum dosage detection capability.)
Figure 16. Initial layout of bounded budget scenarios. ((a) is the initial layout of 30-facility-number scenario and (b)
is the initial layout of 45-facility-number scenario.)
Figure 17. Comparison of BME predicted data and generated simulation data under bounded budget scenarios.
((a) is the result of 30-facility-number scenario and (b) is the result of 45-facility-number scenario.)
R. Soc. open sci.
Society Open
