A model for non-monotonic intensity coding
Johannes Nehrkorn, Hiromu Tanimoto, Andreas V. M. Herz and Ayse Yarali
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150120.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150120
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 March 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: this article was transferred from another Royal Society journal following peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150120)
01-Apr-2015
Dear Professor Yarali
Thank you for submitting the revised version of your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science
in response to the reviewers' comments in Proceedings B. We are satisfied with the revisions you
have made and on behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-
150120 entitled "Title: A model for non-monotonic intensity coding" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, so please carefully proofread
your article and ensure that all the below editorial comments are addressed as appropriate.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 10-Apr-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
3
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's response to decision letter for RSOS-150120
Dear Ms Aime,
We are very happy to have our manuscript accepted for publication. We added the sections Data
accessibility, Competing interests, Author’s contributions, Acknowledgements and Funding
statement as requested. We shall not need an Ethics statement as we only use the fruit fly
Drosophila melanogaster as model organism.
Kind regards,
Ayse Yarali
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150120.R1)
09-Apr-2015
Dear Professor Yarali,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Title: A model for non-monotonic
intensity coding" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
4
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (emilie.aime@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-
mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if
comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Society Open
