Group foraging increases foraging efficiency in a
piscivorous diver, the African penguin
Alistair M. McInnes, Cuan McGeorge, Samuel Ginsberg, Lorien Pichegru and Pierre A.
Pistorius
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170918.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170918
Review timeline
Original submission: 17 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 29 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170918.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Robert Crawford)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Comments by RJM Crawford
Similarly to the authors (p 8, line 5) to the best of my knowledge, I am unaware of other studies
that show a quantitative benefit of group foraging in penguins. This makes it a novel study and
in the context of the African Penguin an important one, as described in terms of potential Allee
effects at p. 10 line 49 and p. 11 line 8. The study is based on 820 minutes of video recording,
which is a substantial record. It is generally well written and fascinating and will be well worth
publishing.
I suggest a few minor changes on the appended text. There are a few inconsistencies in style, e.g.
sometimes ‘African Penguin’, on other occasions ‘African penguin’.
I wondered whether the group sizes indicated on Figure 1 included the solitary birds and if so, as
the study contrasts solitary v group foraging, whether it would not also be worthwhile showing
the same plot for only group foragers. I also wondered whether behaviour might not influence
the proportion of birds present that were captured on camera, e.g. the two surface modes (surface
and preen) seem to have the highest mean (as I understand, although the Figure caption says
maximum – but surely that is the upper end of the shown range) numbers of birds present.
At p. 6 line 23, it was unclear to me what measure indicated ‘profitable’ foraging. Perhaps on
Table 2 ‘Catch location’ should be ‘Catch per unit effort’? If so, the unit also should be given, e.g.
‘number of fish per dive’.
The paragraph on p. 7 that starts at line 31 gives values that are not included in the two tables to
which the reader is referred. This could be reworded, e.g. remove the references to the Tables or
reference them prior to giving the values. In the next paragraph the portion in square brackets
could be omitted.
In the text, including Table 1, ‘equipped with’ or ‘deployed on’ may be better than ‘deployed
with’ as the latter gives the impression that the penguins, rather than the instruments, were
deployed.
I did not check the references cited against those or listed as I assume the authors will have
carefully done so. I also did not check the references for consistency of style. I hope nonetheless
that these few minor comments may be of use. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please provide line numbers !!!!!
Overall, I had great pleasure reading this work. It is concise and clear, and provides a good
example of video data analysis on a seabird.
Following are a number of points that should be addressed:
CPUE: the way it was calculated (number of prey item caught to the time spent in a foraging
event) implies that depth alone has a great effect on the results, since shallower prey are accessed
faster than deeper prey independently of any other variable (both transit (up and down) time and
recovery time increase with depth). In particular I suggest Depth (as mean depth of all dives in
foraging event for example) be added in the model in Table 3, and its effect controlled for. It is
then possible that your results in figure 5 do not hold. Then, group can still have a benefit as a
way to push the prey in a more interesting depth layer.
P9, countershading ... not really demonstrated in reference 44 ... Only correlation are made,
providing little insight on processes... I suggest deleting this, of finding a more appropriate
reference.
reference 42 is by Drummond, not Drummon, and seems a bit off-place here.
Overall, references are highly "penguin oriented" and sometimes could benefit from enlarging the
point of view. In particular the recent work y Thiebault et al. 2016 has shown that Catch per unit
effort in foraging gannets was related to the sequence of multiple attacks that can be achieved
while being in groups. This sequence is believed to isolate individual fish from the school, a
finding that it would be relevant to put in perspective with the finding in your work, figure 4 for
example! Also, it is a more recent paper that could be added to reference 9.
Thiebault A, Semeria M, Lett C, Tremblay Y (2016) How to capture fish in a school? Effect of
successive predator attacks on seabird feeding success (J Quinn, Ed.). Journal of Animal Ecology
85:157–167
ref 13: 1938 or 1931 ?
Ref 14 seems a bit off... see if this one would not be more appropriate: Grünbaum D, Veit RR
(2003) Black-browed albatrosses foraging on antarctic krill: density-dependence through local
enhancement? Ecology 84:3265–3275
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170918)
22-Aug-2017
Dear Dr McInnes
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170918 entitled
"Group foraging increases foraging efficiency in a piscivorous diver, the African Penguin" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170918
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
5
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-Aug-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Comments by RJM Crawford
Similarly to the authors (p 8, line 5) to the best of my knowledge, I am unaware of other studies
that show a quantitative benefit of group foraging in penguins. This makes it a novel study and
in the context of the African Penguin an important one, as described in terms of potential Allee
effects at p. 10 line 49 and p. 11 line 8. The study is based on 820 minutes of video recording,
which is a substantial record. It is generally well written and fascinating and will be well worth
publishing.
I suggest a few minor changes on the appended text. There are a few inconsistencies in style, e.g.
sometimes ‘African Penguin’, on other occasions ‘African penguin’.
I wondered whether the group sizes indicated on Figure 1 included the solitary birds and if so, as
the study contrasts solitary v group foraging, whether it would not also be worthwhile showing
the same plot for only group foragers. I also wondered whether behaviour might not influence
the proportion of birds present that were captured on camera, e.g. the two surface modes (surface
and preen) seem to have the highest mean (as I understand, although the Figure caption says
maximum – but surely that is the upper end of the shown range) numbers of birds present.
At p. 6 line 23, it was unclear to me what measure indicated ‘profitable’ foraging. Perhaps on
Table 2 ‘Catch location’ should be ‘Catch per unit effort’? If so, the unit also should be given, e.g.
‘number of fish per dive’.
The paragraph on p. 7 that starts at line 31 gives values that are not included in the two tables to
which the reader is referred. This could be reworded, e.g. remove the references to the Tables or
reference them prior to giving the values. In the next paragraph the portion in square brackets
could be omitted.
In the text, including Table 1, ‘equipped with’ or ‘deployed on’ may be better than ‘deployed
with’ as the latter gives the impression that the penguins, rather than the instruments, were
deployed.
I did not check the references cited against those or listed as I assume the authors will have
carefully done so. I also did not check the references for consistency of style. I hope nonetheless
that these few minor comments may be of use.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Please provide line numbers !!!!!
Overall, I had great pleasure reading this work. It is concise and clear, and provides a good
example of video data analysis on a seabird.
Following are a number of points that should be addressed:
CPUE: the way it was calculated (number of prey item caught to the time spent in a foraging
event) implies that depth alone has a great effect on the results, since shallower prey are accessed
faster than deeper prey independently of any other variable (both transit (up and down) time and
recovery time increase with depth). In particular I suggest Depth (as mean depth of all dives in
foraging event for example) be added in the model in Table 3, and its effect controlled for. It is
then possible that your results in figure 5 do not hold. Then, group can still have a benefit as a
way to push the prey in a more interesting depth layer.
P9, countershading ... not really demonstrated in reference 44 ... Only correlation are made,
providing little insight on processes... I suggest deleting this, of finding a more appropriate
reference.
7
reference 42 is by Drummond, not Drummon, and seems a bit off-place here.
Overall, references are highly "penguin oriented" and sometimes could benefit from enlarging the
point of view. In particular the recent work y Thiebault et al. 2016 has shown that Catch per unit
effort in foraging gannets was related to the sequence of multiple attacks that can be achieved
while being in groups. This sequence is believed to isolate individual fish from the school, a
finding that it would be relevant to put in perspective with the finding in your work, figure 4 for
example! Also, it is a more recent paper that could be added to reference 9.
Thiebault A, Semeria M, Lett C, Tremblay Y (2016) How to capture fish in a school? Effect of
successive predator attacks on seabird feeding success (J Quinn, Ed.). Journal of Animal Ecology
85:157–167
ref 13: 1938 or 1931 ?
Ref 14 seems a bit off... see if this one would not be more appropriate: Grünbaum D, Veit RR
(2003) Black-browed albatrosses foraging on antarctic krill: density-dependence through local
enhancement? Ecology 84:3265–3275
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170918)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170918.R1)
29-Aug-2017
Dear Dr McInnes,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Group foraging increases foraging
efficiency in a piscivorous diver, the African Penguin" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
8
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Appendix B
Reviewers' report
The following contains responses to the reviewers' concerns regarding the manuscript. The authors'
responses are highlighted in bold type for each comment with underlined sections denoting specific
changes in sentences. Line references from the authors refer to the revised manuscript.
Reviewer 1: RJM Crawford
Comment 1: There are a few inconsistencies in style, e.g. sometimes ‘African Penguin’, on other
occasions ‘African penguin’.
Response 1: We have changed this throughout to 'African penguin'
Comment 2: I wondered whether the group sizes indicated on Figure 1 included the solitary birds
and if so, as the study contrasts solitary v group foraging, whether it would not also be worthwhile
showing the same plot for only group foragers. I also wondered whether behaviour might not
influence the proportion of birds present that were captured on camera, e.g. the two surface modes
(surface and preen) seem to have the highest mean (as I understand, although the Figure caption
says maximum – but surely that is the upper end of the shown range) numbers of birds present.
Response 2: Figure 1 has been amended to include group sizes for foraging birds. The text has
been changed accordingly:
Lines 169 - 171: "African penguins associated in larger groups while preening, especially birds that
participated in group foraging (up to 50 birds), compared to other at-sea behaviours with the
smallest group sizes recorded for foraging behaviour (Figure 1)."
Figure 1 caption:" Differential group sizes for African penguin behaviours at sea as observed from
Animal-borne Video Recorders. Observations are for the maximum number of conspecifics
observed per recording bin showing medians and inter-quartile ranges (IQR) for all individuals
(median = vertical bold line, IQR = black box) and only for individuals that participated in group
foraging (median = blue cross, IQR = shaded red box).Whiskers represent the ranges for all
individuals."
Regarding the second part of the reviewer's comments we are confident that the estimate of
group size was consistent across behaviours including group foraging as all schools targeted were
small enough to observe a considerable buffer around this prey during the duration of the foraging
dive and we were thus able to confidently count the number of conspecifics interacting with this
prey.
Comment 3: At p. 6 line 23, it was unclear to me what measure indicated ‘profitable’ foraging.
Perhaps on Table 2 ‘Catch location’ should be ‘Catch per unit effort’? If so, the unit also should be
given, e.g. ‘number of fish per dive’.
Response 3: The table sub-heading has been changed to "Mean (sd) fish caught per catch location"
Comment 4: The paragraph on p. 7 that starts at line 31 gives values that are not included in the two
tables to which the reader is referred. This could be reworded, e.g. remove the references to the
Tables or reference them prior to giving the values. In the next paragraph the portion in square
brackets could be omitted.
Response 4: The multipliers mentioned refer to the exponents of the coefficients in the model
because we used a log transformation. We have changed the table caption to re-iterate this:
Table 3 caption: " Linear mixed effects model coefficients (ß) and standard errors (se) for the
natural log of catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) as a function of categorical fixed effects..."
For the second part of this comment we have omitted this as requested.
Comment 5: In the text, including Table 1, ‘equipped with’ or ‘deployed on’ may be better than
‘deployed with’ as the latter gives the impression that the penguins, rather than the instruments,
were deployed.
Response 5: This has been changed to "equipped with" as recommended.
Comment 6: I did not check the references cited against those or listed as I assume the authors will
have carefully done so. I also did not check the references for consistency of style. I hope
nonetheless that these few minor comments may be of use.
Response 6: The reference list has been checked against the references cited and the grammatical
and typographic errors have been rectified as recommended.
Reviewer 2
Comment 1: CPUE: the way it was calculated (number of prey item caught to the time spent in a
foraging event) implies that depth alone has a great effect on the results, since shallower prey are
accessed faster than deeper prey independently of any other variable (both transit (up and down)
time and recovery time increase with depth). In particular I suggest Depth (as mean depth of all
dives in foraging event for example) be added in the model in Table 3, and its effect controlled for. It
is then possible that your results in figure 5 do not hold. Then, group can still have a benefit as a way
to push the prey in a more interesting depth layer.
Response 1: If we control for depth then the model will be biased to relationships where depth is
held constant at an average which will mask the interaction of the factors in question of events at
shallow and deep depths. Furthermore, we cannot estimate depths for shallow dives accurately as
there was no discernible descent phase by which we could estimate depth during these events.
The model is simply assessing the influence of 2 factors on the outcome of a proxy for foraging
effort, i.e. CPUE, which includes instances of deep and shallow dives for both single and schooling
prey for both solitary and group dives.
Comment 2: P9, countershading ... not really demonstrated in reference 44 ... Only correlation are
made, providing little insight on processes... I suggest deleting this, of finding a more appropriate
reference.
Response 2: I have modified the sentence to read: " Countershading in seabirds has been linked to
mostly fish-eating species that feed in the mid-water [44,45] and could provide cryptic benefits
while pursuing prey [46]. "
Two new references have been added to support this:
Cairns DK. 1986 Plumage Colour in Pursuit-Diving Seabirds: Why Do Penguins Wear Tuxedos? Bird
Behav. 6, 28–65.
Ruxton GD, Speed MP, Kelly DJ. 2004 What, if anything, is the adaptive function of
countershading? Anim. Behav. 68, 445–451.
Comment 3: reference 42 is by Drummond, not Drummon, and seems a bit off-place here.
Response 3: I have corrected the spelling of the author. This is a classical experimental study that
gives clear empirical evidence for contrasting feeding behaviours in closely related species that
occupy different foraging niches - we have therefore retained this reference as we believe it is
very relevant to the subsequent discussion.
Comment 4: Overall, references are highly "penguin oriented" and sometimes could benefit from
enlarging the point of view. In particular the recent work y Thiebault et al. 2016 has shown that
Catch per unit effort in foraging gannets was related to the sequence of multiple attacks that can be
achieved while being in groups. This sequence is believed to isolate individual fish from the school, a
finding that it would be relevant to put in perspective with the finding in your work, figure 4 for
example! Also, it is a more recent paper that could be added to reference 9.
Response 4: The citation recommended (Thiebault et al. 2016) is highly relevant and we have
added it to reference 9 as suggested.
Comment 5: ref 13: 1938 or 1931 ?
Response 5: This reference has been corrected:
Allee WC. 1938 Animal aggregations: a study in general sociology. University of Chicago Press,
Chicago.
Comment 6: Ref 14 seems a bit off... see if this one would not be more appropriate: Grünbaum D,
Veit RR (2003) Black-browed albatrosses foraging on antarctic krill: density-dependence through
local enhancement? Ecology 84:3265–3275
Response 6: We agree that this reference is more appropriate in this paragraph and have
substituted accordingly.
Society Open
