Orientation of tyrosine side chain in neurotoxic Aß differs in
two different secondary structures of the peptide
Swagata Das, Supriya Das, Anupam Roy, Uttam Pal and Nakul C. Maiti
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160112.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160112
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 August 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 September 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160112.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript by Das et al. assesses the role of rotameric state of tyrosine sidechain on its
fluorescence in two different conformations of the Abeta peptide. This work is interesting, and
the experimental and molecular dynamics data support the conclusions. My only concern,
although minor, is that the authors fail to stress the importance of their study in a broader
context. In particular,
(1) Does the rotameric state of tyrosine somehow influences the stabilizing interactions in
Abeta peptide, thus preventing or enhancing its aggregation?
(2) There is significant work done on other fluorophores whose fluorescence has been
shown to depend on their rotameric state (Lakowicz et al., Principles of Fluorescence
Spectroscopy). Authors need to discuss their work in this context.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
1. Abstract: no information on what kinds of experiments and calculations are reported in
the paper.
2. Introduction: it is in fact a summary of the results, but without clear statement on what
research methods were used. No discussion of the current knowledge on Ab research.
3. Pre-aggregates are known to exist in Ab when purchased from such suppliers. No
consideration of this is made in the article. Hexafluoroisopropanol has been used to minimise this
(e.g. Stine, W.B.; Dahlgren, K.N.; Krafft, G.A.; and LaDu, M.J., In vitro characterization of
3
conditions for amyloid-beta peptide oligomerization and fibrillogenesis. J.Biol.Chem. 2003.
278(13):11612-22).
4. A-beta (1-42) peptides at the concentration of 20 µM tend to aggregate, so the
fluorescence response evolves in time. The authors consider their samples as stable solutions of
non-interacting monomers, which is unlikely to be true.
5. MD: Simulation time (50 ns) is surprisingly short. Only one trajectory has been
calculated, no MD statistics given. In order to make any conclusions a number of trajectories and
their statistics are needed.
6. MD: Comment on constraining the geometry of water and heavy atom – hydrogen bonds
(p.6 lines 18-25) is confusing: Both PME and PBC do not constrain any bonds.
7. No information on counter ions added. The distances between the peptide and the walls
of the box are not given.
8. Figure 3A shows the spectral shape to be constant as function of methanol concentration.
Is this not somewhat surprising given the exposure to solvent?
9. The MD results should be compared with the data cited by recent papers in this field
(e.g. Amaro, M.; Kubiak-Ossowska, K.; Birch, D.J.S.; Rolinski, O.J., Methods Appl. Fluoresc. 2013,
1, 015006).
10. P.10 lines 50-60: The paper compares the spectroscopic measurements of the samples
with many interacting and aggregating peptides with MD simulations of one isolated peptide
with no proper MD statistics. Therefore the conclusions of this paper are not well justified.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160112)
18-Jul-2016
Dear Dr Maiti,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Orientation of Tyrosine Side Chain in Neurotoxic Aß
Differs in Two Different Secondary Structures of the Peptide") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 10-Aug-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
4
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160112
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This manuscript by Das et al. assesses the role of rotameric state of tyrosine sidechain on its
fluorescence in two different conformations of the Abeta peptide. This work is interesting, and
the experimental and molecular dynamics data support the conclusions. My only concern,
although minor, is that the authors fail to stress the importance of their study in a broader
context. In particular,
(1) Does the rotameric state of tyrosine somehow influences the stabilizing interactions in
Abeta peptide, thus preventing or enhancing its aggregation?
(2) There is significant work done on other fluorophores whose fluorescence has been
shown to depend on their rotameric state (Lakowicz et al., Principles of Fluorescence
Spectroscopy). Authors need to discuss their work in this context.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
1. Abstract: no information on what kinds of experiments and calculations are reported in
the paper.
2. Introduction: it is in fact a summary of the results, but without clear statement on what
research methods were used. No discussion of the current knowledge on Ab research.
3. Pre-aggregates are known to exist in Ab when purchased from such suppliers. No
consideration of this is made in the article. Hexafluoroisopropanol has been used to minimise this
(e.g. Stine, W.B.; Dahlgren, K.N.; Krafft, G.A.; and LaDu, M.J., In vitro characterization of
conditions for amyloid-beta peptide oligomerization and fibrillogenesis. J.Biol.Chem. 2003.
278(13):11612-22).
6
4. A-beta (1-42) peptides at the concentration of 20 µM tend to aggregate, so the
fluorescence response evolves in time. The authors consider their samples as stable solutions of
non-interacting monomers, which is unlikely to be true.
5. MD: Simulation time (50 ns) is surprisingly short. Only one trajectory has been
calculated, no MD statistics given. In order to make any conclusions a number of trajectories and
their statistics are needed.
6. MD: Comment on constraining the geometry of water and heavy atom – hydrogen bonds
(p.6 lines 18-25) is confusing: Both PME and PBC do not constrain any bonds.
7. No information on counter ions added. The distances between the peptide and the walls
of the box are not given.
8. Figure 3A shows the spectral shape to be constant as function of methanol concentration.
Is this not somewhat surprising given the exposure to solvent?
9. The MD results should be compared with the data cited by recent papers in this field
(e.g. Amaro, M.; Kubiak-Ossowska, K.; Birch, D.J.S.; Rolinski, O.J., Methods Appl. Fluoresc. 2013,
1, 015006).
10. P.10 lines 50-60: The paper compares the spectroscopic measurements of the samples
with many interacting and aggregating peptides with MD simulations of one isolated peptide
with no proper MD statistics. Therefore the conclusions of this paper are not well justified.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160112)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160112.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
7
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Satisfactory revisions have been made.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160112.R1)
02-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Maiti,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Orientation of Tyrosine Side Chain in
Neurotoxic Aß Differs in Two Different Secondary Structures of the Peptide" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Satisfactory revisions have been made.
pendix A
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS
nuscript ID: RSOS-160112
entation of Tyrosine Side Chain in Neurotoxic Aß Differs in Two Different Secondary
uctures of the Peptide
Andrew Dunn
ior Publishing Editor
yal Society Open Science
ar Editor
would like to take this opportunity to thank you and the reviewers for evaluation of our
nuscript and the suggestions that you have made to present our work in a more compact form.
have put our best efforts to rectify the typographical errors, improve the quality of the
nuscript and the figures as mentioned. As suggested by the reviewers, we have looked in the
gestions and corrected where applicable. We believe that the current version will be well
ed for Royal Society Open Science.
viewer #1
s manuscript by Das et al. assesses the role of rotameric state of tyrosine side chain on its
rescence in two different conformations of the Aß peptide. This work is interesting, and the
erimental and molecular dynamics data support the conclusions. My only concern, although
or, is that the authors fail to stress the importance of their study in a broader context.
articular,
Does the rotameric state of tyrosine somehow influence the stabilizing interactions in
eta peptide, thus preventing or enhancing its aggregation?
. We thank the reviewer for allowing us to answer one of the major concerns of this
nuscript. Tyrosine residue is an intrinsic fluorophore in the Aß peptides and thus has
lications towards the structural information of the peptides. It is well known that upon
ractions within the micellar environment, the protein/peptides undergo changes in the
formational state. We observed that in alpha helical conformation in micellar environment
in disordered state of the peptide in aqueous buffer, the residue remains largely in two
erent rotameric state and showed different degree of fluorescence. It was observed that the
tide with alpha helical structure in micellar environment remains much stable and less prone
orm amyloid aggregates. However, it’s not clear whether rotameric state of the tyrosyl group
any direct effect on this. We added this point in the revised manuscript.
There is significant work done on other fluorophores whose fluorescence has been
wn to depend on their rotameric state (Lakowicz et al., Principles of Fluorescence
ctroscopy). Authors need to discuss their work in this context.
. We discussed this proposition in the revised manuscript. Fluorescence is a molecular
perty and is dependent on the geometry and electronic configuration of molecules that
udes rotameric structures, both in the ground state and excited state having significant role
he fluorescence property of a molecule. Fluorescence of proteins and peptides often arise
m intrinsic chromospheres like tryptophan, tyrosine residues. Contribution from
nylalanine is very weak. However, the fluorescence from the proteins is often found to be
plicated and the time-resolved fluorescence analysis often found that the fluorescence decay
to multi-component lifetime parameters and with different amplitudes. Some experimental
theoretical investigations with tryptophan and tyrosine containing proteins and peptides
gested the existence of rotameric states as the source of different fluorescence components
erences are included in the revised manuscript). Rotameric model was proposed to explain
non-exponential fluorescence decay of tyrosine and tryptophan residues. Different degree of
ited state charge transfer that depends on the rotameric structure was proposed for different
rescence contribution. We showed that the tyrosine residue in Aß peptide attained largely
different rotameric states depending on the overall peptide conformation. This could be the
son behind observing different degree of fluorescence intensity in two separate conformation
es.
viewer #2
Abstract: no information on what kinds of experiments and calculations are reported in
paper.
. . We have thoroughly revised the manuscript. In the revised version, we added the
oduction section. We have mentioned about the experiments and calculations made in the
nuscript in the revised manuscript. The significant results are also mentioned in the abstract
he manuscript.
Introduction: it is in fact a summary of the results, but without clear statement on what
earch methods were used. No discussion of the current knowledge on Ab research.
. We are regretful for our mistake and have made amendments for the same in the revised
nuscript. As mentioned by the reviewer, we have rewritten the “Introduction” part
phasizing the recent advances in the research of Aß peptides. The “Introduction” mentions in
rt the experiments performed and the results obtained.
Pre-aggregates are known to exist in Ab when purchased from such suppliers. No
sideration of this is made in the article. Hexafluoroisopropanol has been used to minimise
(e.g. Stine, W.B.; Dahlgren, K.N.; Krafft, G.A.; and LaDu, M.J., In vitro characterization of
ditions for amyloid-beta peptide oligomerization and fibrillogenesis. J.Biol.Chem. 2003.
(13):11612-22).
. The reviewer has pointed out diligently that Aß peptides are prone to aggregation and using
IP is one of the most used solvents for solubilizing the aggregates. However, there are other
tocols to prevent aggregation of these peptides of which using alkaline buffer is most
mon. A typical Aß42 peptide (purchased from American Peptide Company) solution was
pared by adding 200 µL of 20 mM NaOH solution to 0.1mg of the peptide followed by
ication and vortexing until a clear solution is obtained. The solution was further centrifuged
emove all the particles (aggregates) and we also checked it by light scattering measurement.
fluorescence spectra were observed to have no significant scattering which enabled us to
clude that the peptide solution was mostly in the monomeric state. The experimental
hodology was adopted from Maiti et.al, Mechanistic Studies of Cu(II) Binding to Amyloid-ß
tides and the Fluorescence and Redox Behaviors of the Resulting Complexes. The Journal of
sical Chemistry B. 2008. 112(28): 8406-8411.
Aß42 peptides at the concentration of 20 µM tend to aggregate, so the fluorescence
ponse evolves in time. The authors consider their samples as stable solutions of non-
racting monomers, which is unlikely to be true.
. The concern of the reviewer is true, although literatures have pointed out that the Aß
tides donot tend to form aggregates in highly alkaline buffer and a certain incubation time
iod is required for the peptides to form aggregates. The stock solution of the peptide in
aline buffer ensures the peptide is maintained in monomeric condition. We have added the
rences in the main text (Nag et.al.2011 and Fezoui et.al.2000). Please note the explanation
en above
MD: Simulation time (50 ns) is surprisingly short. Only one trajectory has been
culated, no MD statistics given. In order to make any conclusions a number of trajectories and
r statistics are needed.
. As suggested by the reviewer, we have performed simulations in three different trajectories
the results are interpreted accordingly in the revised manuscript. New figures are added in
manuscript.
MD: Comment on constraining the geometry of water and heavy atom – hydrogen bonds
lines 18-25) is confusing: Both PME and PBC do not constrain any bonds.
. We apologize for the mistake made previously. We have corrected in the “Materials and
thods”.
No information on counter ions added. The distances between the peptide and the walls
he box are not given.
. We thank the reviewer for pointing out the mistake. We have now mentioned the details in
“Molecular dynamics” subsection of the “Materials and Methods”. The peptide was placed
he centre of the box and the distance from the boundary was at least 10Å. Six chloride ions
e to charge neutralize the whole system.
Figure 3A shows the spectral shape to be constant as function of methanol concentration.
his not somewhat surprising given the exposure to solvent?
. We respect the concern of the reviewer. Earlier reports suggested that tyrosine fluorescence
k position is less sensitive towards the polarity of the solvent, though tryptophan emission is
y sensitive to local environments (book on protein fluorescence by Lakowicz) Upon
reasing the methanol concentration the polarity of the solution changed, however, emission
ition was less effected and it may be due to intrinsic nature of the tyrosyl group itself. This
nt is added on the revised version of the manuscript but literatures have mentioned that the
rescence peak of tyrosine is slightly red shifted in DMSO, however, the peak position
ains unaltered in THF, isopropanol and methanol (Guzow et.al.2005).
The MD results should be compared with the data cited by recent papers in this field
. Amaro, M.; Kubiak-Ossowska, K.; Birch, D.J.S.; Rolinski, O.J., Methods Appl. Fluoresc.
3, 1, 015006).
. Amaro et al. also showed a hypothetical model and linked the fluorescence responses of the
tide with the rotamer conformations during the aggregation processes. Their molecular
amic simulation suggested a four-rotamer model of the tyrosine residue to explain the
rescence behavior of Aß aggregates (oligomers and fibers). In our investigation we showed
t in two different secondary structure of the peptide in monomeric state, the tyrosyl group
ulated in two different rotameric configurations.
P.10 lines 50-60: The paper compares the spectroscopic measurements of the samples
h many interacting and aggregating peptides with MD simulations of one isolated peptide
h no proper MD statistics. Therefore the conclusions of this paper are not well justified.
. It is interesting to study the intermolecular interactions but the current study is mainly
used on the studies with monomeric state of the peptide. We have concentrated on
ntaining the peptides in monomeric state in the freshly prepared sample, and the
rescence studies also identified no scattering indicating that the peptide did not undergo
omerization. As a result, the molecular simulations are also carried out with single peptide.
Society Open
