Magnetic resonance and ultrasound contrast imaging of
polymer-shelled microbubbles loaded with iron oxide
nanoparticles
Claudia Sciallero, Luca Balbi, Gaio Paradossi and Andrea Trucco,
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160063.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160063
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 July 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160063.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No, it is not clear on how to access the supporting data.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Two dual-mode contrast agents (MB + SPIONs): (1) MBN-on (functionalized SPION’s attached to
shell surface through covalent bonding at 29% with respect to MB weight) and (2) MBN-into
(SPIONs are physically entrapped into the shell during cross-linking reaction at 15% and 38%
with respect to MB weight). The characteristics were assessed using MRI and US systems.
Overall, the manuscript makes a contribution to the field.
General comment: The statistical analysis that was used and the number of samples per condition
are not stated.
Pg. 10, L12-17: The authors stated that “In figure 1, transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
images showing cross-sections of the three types of MBs are shown; the black dots represent
SPIONs. The SPIONs are clearly bound to the surface or embedded into the shell in the cases of
MBN-on and MBN-in, respectively.”
How was the percentage of SPIONs measured? In figure 1, what is the percentage of SPIONs in
panel c? Can you show both 15% and 38% SPIONs samples?
Also, does ultrasound effect the SPIONs percentage following insonation. Were any TEM images
of MBN-on and MBN-into acquired after ultrasound insonation?
Figure 4: Is there a statistical difference between MB-plain and MBN-into15?
Figure 5: What is the ROI (region of interest) over which the contrast was calculated.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Your work is well done and interesting. I am however concerned about the practical
compatibility of MRI and ultrasound examinations.
Given the impossibility of conducting the two examinations at the same time and the relatively
short lifetime of the CA it appears to me that the clinical value of such a procedure could be
scarce.
The addition of a short note on this issue, along with data on the lifetime in vivo of microbubbles
of the type describe would be a valuable addition to the work.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160063)
22-Mar-2016
Dear Dr Sciallero
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160063 entitled
"Magnetic resonance and ultrasound contrast imaging of polymer-shelled microbubbles loaded
with iron oxide nanoparticles" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160063
• Competing interests
4
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-Mar-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
5
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Two dual-mode contrast agents (MB + SPIONs): (1) MBN-on (functionalized SPION’s attached to
shell surface through covalent bonding at 29% with respect to MB weight) and (2) MBN-into
(SPIONs are physically entrapped into the shell during cross-linking reaction at 15% and 38%
with respect to MB weight). The characteristics were assessed using MRI and US systems.
Overall, the manuscript makes a contribution to the field.
General comment: The statistical analysis that was used and the number of samples per condition
are not stated.
Pg. 10, L12-17: The authors stated that “In figure 1, transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
images showing cross-sections of the three types of MBs are shown; the black dots represent
SPIONs. The SPIONs are clearly bound to the surface or embedded into the shell in the cases of
MBN-on and MBN-in, respectively.”
How was the percentage of SPIONs measured? In figure 1, what is the percentage of SPIONs in
panel c? Can you show both 15% and 38% SPIONs samples?
Also, does ultrasound effect the SPIONs percentage following insonation. Were any TEM images
of MBN-on and MBN-into acquired after ultrasound insonation?
Figure 4: Is there a statistical difference between MB-plain and MBN-into15?
Figure 5: What is the ROI (region of interest) over which the contrast was calculated.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Your work is well done and interesting. I am however concerned about the practical
compatibility of MRI and ultrasound examinations.
6
Given the impossibility of conducting the two examinations at the same time and the relatively
short lifetime of the CA it appears to me that the clinical value of such a procedure could be
scarce.
The addition of a short note on this issue, along with data on the lifetime in vivo of microbubbles
of the type describe would be a valuable addition to the work.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160063)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Responses to the reviewers’ comments
Manuscript RSOS-160063
Magnetic resonance and ultrasound contrast imaging of
polymer-shelled microbubbles loaded with iron oxide
nanoparticles
Authors: Claudia Sciallero, Luca Balbi, Gaio Paradossi and Andrea Trucco
First, we would like to thank the reviewers for their constructive comments, which
have helped us to improve the quality of the revised manuscript.
In the following response, blue characters indicate the reviewers’ comments, and black
characters indicate our answers. Each comment from reviewer #1 is indicated by R1.X and
the related answer by A1.X. Each comment from reviewer #2 is indicated by R2.X and the
related answer by A2.X.
Reviewer #1
Two dual-mode contrast agents (MB + SPIONs): (1) MBN-on (functionalized SPIONs
attached to shell surface through covalent bonding at 29% with respect to MB weight) and
(2) MBN-into (SPIONs are physically entrapped into the shell during cross-linking reaction at
15% and 38% with respect to MB weight). The characteristics were assessed using MRI and
US systems. Overall, the manuscript makes a contribution to the field.
R1.1: General comment: The statistical analysis that was used and the number of samples
per condition are not stated.
A1.1: According to the reviewer's suggestion, Section 2.2.1 (Imaging techniques and
relaxometric measurements), Section 3.2 (In vitro MRI experiments) and Section 3.3 (In
vitro UI experiments) have been improved, and new sentences and information have been
inserted.
R1.2: Pg. 10, L12-17: The authors stated that in figure 1, transmission electron microscopy
(TEM) images showing cross-sections of the three types of MBs are shown; the black dots
represent SPIONs. The SPIONs are clearly bound to the surface or embedded into the shell
in the cases of MBN-on and MBN-in, respectively.•
How was the percentage of SPIONs measured? In figure 1, what is the percentage of
SPIONs in panel c? Can you show both 15% and 38% SPIONs samples?
Also, does ultrasound effect the SPIONs percentage following insonation. Were any TEM
images of MBN-on and MBN-into acquired after ultrasound insonation?
A1.2: As the reviewer suggested, the method used to determinate the amount of SPIONs
bound to or embedded in MBs has been specified in the text. The information has been
added to the end of Section 2.1.2. For more details, see [7].
In addition, according to the reviewer's suggestion, the caption of Fig. 1 has been updated
as follows: “TEM images of the three types of CAs. From left to right: (a) cross-sections of
MB-plain, (b) MBN-on (SPION weight percentage: 29%) and (c) MBN-into (SPION weight
percentage: 15%) are displayed. The black dots represent SPIONs. Note that the cross-
sections were obtained at random distances from the equatorial plane of the MBs, resulting
in size differences between the analysed MBs. The scale bars represent 500 nm. Courtesy of
IOS Press [27].”
Concerning MBN-into38, we are afraid that we cannot show the related TEM image
because the laboratory technicians missed to record the picture.
Finally, concerning the last question, we recognize that the reviewer’s perplexity represents
an interesting topic for further investigation. In our manuscript, we assumed that the
ultrasound examination should be performed immediately after the MRI procedure. This
temporal sequence for the two diagnostic exams was applied during the in vitro tests
reported in the manuscript. As a consequence, the measurement of SPION percentage after
UI analysis was not performed, because the SPION presence is relevant only for the MRI
procedure. Although TEM images are not available, it is to note that low/moderate acoustic
pressures were used to perform experiments, avoiding in this way rupture or partial
collapse of bubbles. In addition, we did not observe any SPION precipitate at the end of the
numerous multi-modal tests.
R1.3: Figure 4: Is there a statistical difference between MB-plain and MBN-into15?
A1.3: In response to the reviewer’s comment, we have enhanced the description by
modifying the following text in Section 3.2: “From the analysis of these relaxation
properties, it is evident that MBN-into15 did not significantly differ from MB-plain (because
the paired t-test gives a p-value of 0.37), whereas the differences between MBN-into38
and MB-plain were most likely to be statistically significant (p-value of 0.07).”
R1.4: Figure 5: What is the ROI (region of interest) over which the contrast was calculated.
A1.4: We would like to thank the reviewer for this comment. In the original manuscript, we
apologize for not specifying the ROIs used to calculate the contrast to tissue ratio (CTR). We
have inserted the description of the two different ROIs and the technique to estimate the
CTR (according to the reviewer’s general comment, see R1.1) by adding a paragraph to
Section 3.3.
Reviewer #2
Your work is well done and interesting. I am however concerned about the practical
compatibility of MRI and ultrasound examinations.
R2.1: Given the impossibility of conducting the two examinations at the same time and the
relatively short lifetime of the CA it appears to me that the clinical value of such a
procedure could be scarce.
The addition of a short note on this issue, along with data on the lifetime in vivo of
microbubbles of the type describe would be a valuable addition to the work.
A2.1: According to the reviewer's suggestion, Section 3.4 has been modified, and a new
paragraph has been added to the end of this section. The aim was to add a description of
the multi-modal examination sessions and the favorable characteristics of CAs stabilized by
a polymeric shell. We are confident that the new text removes any lingering doubt
regarding the clinical value of the proposed approach.
Society Open
