Variable wing venation in Agathiphaga (Lepidoptera:
Agathiphagidae) is key to understanding the evolution of
basal moths
Sandra R. Schachat and George W. Gibbs
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160453.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160453
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 June 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 31 August 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 September 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160453.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (André Nel)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
you indicate that 'because a 3-branched Sc vein is not known to have been regained in any
Lepidoptera', but in your figure 6, the way you indicate the number of branches is confusing for
eriocranidae, maybe you could use a clearer way to indicate ....
in this figure 6 (if I am not wrong), as it is, you could also consider that the 2-branched Sc is the
plesiormorphic state and that the occasional 3-branched Sc in some agathiphaga is a specialised
character
you should add what happen in the lepidopteran sister group in your figure
'because a 2-branched Sc vein is known only from the most early-diverging families'
this argument is rather weak, because it seems after your figure 6, that this character is
homoplastic
'the most plausible conclusion regarding the three-branched Sc vein'
yes, it is plausible, but in fact not really demonstrated
the problem is that the fossil oldest moth families have not been added to the phylogeny, which is
quite difficult to do at this time, I agree, but it renders the problem quite difficult
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Dong Ren)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The present study is based on observations of wing slides, all of which are figured in the
manuscript.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper reported special specimens of Agathiphaga vitiensis with 3-branched Subcostal vein, a
5-branched Medial vein, and a 2-branched Cubitus Posterior vein on the forewing. It definitely
gives a major contribution to the evolution of venation in moths. Text and illustrations are
appropriate, of good quality and necessary to the full extent; references are complete. I believe the
paper is worthy of publication.
3
I have some questions and comments as follows:
1. Seen from Figure 4, some differences present in the specimens of Agathiphaga vitiensis.
The authors considered these differences as intraspecific polymorphism rather than interspecific
differences. They should give more detailed explanation.
2. Two models predict primitive forewing patterning for Lepidoptera: “vein-fork” model and
“wing-margin” Model. Micropterigidae fit the “wing margin” model. The location of the
plesiomorphic branch of Sc was predicted based on the microlepidopteran wing pattern.
The authors proposed “the branch of Sc known only from Agathiphaga occurs precisely in the
location predicted by studies of microlepidopteran wing pattern.”
I think it is better to illustrate that Agathiphaga is consistent with the predictions of the model
proposed for Microlepidoptera firstly. And then get their conclusion.
3. P12 Reference. 12 Simonsen, T. J. & Kristensen, N. P. 2001 Agathiphaga wing vestiture
revisited: evidence for complex early evolution of lepidopteran scales (Lepidoptera:
Agathiphagidae). Insect Syst. Evol. 32, 169–175. (doi:10.1017/CBO9781107415324.004).
This doi number is incorrect. It should be “doi: 10.1163/187631201X00128”.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160453)
30-Aug-2016
Dear Ms Schachat
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160453 entitled
"Variable wing venation in Agathiphaga (Lepidoptera: Agathiphagidae) is key to understanding
the evolution of basal moths" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
4
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160453
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 08-Sep-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
you indicate that 'because a 3-branched Sc vein is not known to have been regained in any
Lepidoptera', but in your figure 6, the way you indicate the number of branches is confusing for
eriocranidae, maybe you could use a clearer way to indicate ....
in this figure 6 (if I am not wrong), as it is, you could also consider that the 2-branched Sc is the
plesiormorphic state and that the occasional 3-branched Sc in some agathiphaga is a specialised
character
you should add what happen in the lepidopteran sister group in your figure
'because a 2-branched Sc vein is known only from the most early-diverging families'
this argument is rather weak, because it seems after your figure 6, that this character is
homoplastic
'the most plausible conclusion regarding the three-branched Sc vein'
yes, it is plausible, but in fact not really demonstrated
the problem is that the fossil oldest moth families have not been added to the phylogeny, which is
quite difficult to do at this time, I agree, but it renders the problem quite difficult
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper reported special specimens of Agathiphaga vitiensis with 3-branched Subcostal vein, a
5-branched Medial vein, and a 2-branched Cubitus Posterior vein on the forewing. It definitely
gives a major contribution to the evolution of venation in moths. Text and illustrations are
appropriate, of good quality and necessary to the full extent; references are complete. I believe the
paper is worthy of publication.
I have some questions and comments as follows:
1. Seen from Figure 4, some differences present in the specimens of Agathiphaga vitiensis.
The authors considered these differences as intraspecific polymorphism rather than interspecific
differences. They should give more detailed explanation.
2. Two models predict primitive forewing patterning for Lepidoptera: “vein-fork” model and
“wing-margin” Model. Micropterigidae fit the “wing margin” model. The location of the
plesiomorphic branch of Sc was predicted based on the microlepidopteran wing pattern.
The authors proposed “the branch of Sc known only from Agathiphaga occurs precisely in the
location predicted by studies of microlepidopteran wing pattern.”
I think it is better to illustrate that Agathiphaga is consistent with the predictions of the model
proposed for Microlepidoptera firstly. And then get their conclusion.
3. P12 Reference. 12 Simonsen, T. J. & Kristensen, N. P. 2001 Agathiphaga wing vestiture
revisited: evidence for complex early evolution of lepidopteran scales (Lepidoptera:
Agathiphagidae). Insect Syst. Evol. 32, 169–175. (doi:10.1017/CBO9781107415324.004).
This doi number is incorrect. It should be “doi: 10.1163/187631201X00128”.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160453)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Drs Alice Power and Kevin Padian
Royal Society Open Science
Dear Editors Power and Padian,
Thank you for your role as Editors and for the time and effort of the two Reviewers
in assessing our manuscript. The suggestions made by both Reviewers are very
helpful, and we are very grateful for the thought and time that they have put into
improving our paper. We have addressed all issues brought up by the reviews and
have implemented all suggestions regarding our manuscript, "Variable wing
venation in Agathiphaga (Lepidoptera: Agathiphagidae) is key to understanding the
evolution of basal moths" (RSOS-160453), coauthored by Sandra R Schachat and
George W Gibbs.
Here we address the comments and suggested revisions point-by-point.
Reviewer #1
Reviewer #1 Comment 1. you indicate that 'because a 3-branched Sc vein is not
known to have been regained in any Lepidoptera', but in your figure 6, the way you
indicate the number of branches is confusing for eriocranidae, maybe you could use
a clearer way to indicate ....
Response. We have made figure 6 (now figure 7) clearer by switching from dashed
lines to colors. Now there should be no confusions over whether Eriocraniidae, for
example, have 3-branched Sc veins.
Reviewer #1 Comment 2. in this figure 6 (if I am not wrong), as it is, you could also
consider that the 2-branched Sc is the plesiormorphic state and that the occasional
3-branched Sc in some agathiphaga is a specialised character
Response. We did not conduct an ancestral state reconstruction in this figure –
instead, we just indicated character states for extant taxa – for a number of reasons.
Firstly, as mentioned in the manuscript, relationships among the most early-
diverging families are not entirely agreed upon, and phylogenies of these groups are
plagued by low support values. Secondly, sampling of certain lineages tends to be
incomplete – only Agathiphaga queenslandensis is sampled for Agathiphagidae,
certain hepialoid families are rarely sampled, etc.
With that said, because nearly all Micropterigidae and Agathiphagidae have 2-
branched Sc veins, and because these are the two most early-diverging families of
moths, it does appear that a multi-branched Sc vein is the plesiomorphic character
state for Lepidoptera. In addition, as mentioned in the manuscript, the trend over
time has overwhelmingly been for veins to be lost, not regained.
Reviewer #1 Comment 3. you should add what happen in the lepidopteran sister
group in your figure
Response. We have revised our figure by adding the Rhyacophilidae, an early-
diverging family of caddisflies that is often used as the outgroup in molecular
phylogenies of Lepidoptera.
Reviewer #1 Comment 4. 'because a 2-branched Sc vein is known only from the
most early-diverging families'
this argument is rather weak, because it seems after your figure 6, that this
character is homoplastic
Response. This character is highly unlikely to be homoplastic among the most
early-diverging families – see our response to Comment 2. Now that the phylogeny
figure has been revised, it should be very clear that no ancestral states are meant to
be implied by this figure.
Reviewer #1 Comment 5. 'the most plausible conclusion regarding the three-
branched Sc vein'
yes, it is plausible, but in fact not really demonstrated
the problem is that the fossil oldest moth families have not been added to the
phylogeny, which is quite difficult to do at this time, I agree, but it renders the
problem quite difficult
Response. Yes, we agree completely with the Reviewer, and that is why we used
such cautious language (“plausible,” etc.). The integration of fossils into the
Lepidoptera tree of life has always been rather difficult, and is complicated even
further by our findings.
Reviewer #2
Reviewer #2 Comment 1. Seen from Figure 4, some differences present in the
specimens of Agathiphaga vitiensis.
The authors considered these differences as intraspecific polymorphism rather than
interspecific differences. They should give more detailed explanation.
Response. All specimens figured are from the same population, so the variation
seen is definitely intra- rather than interspecific. We have edited the figure captions
and the Materials and Methods to provide this necessary detail.
Reviewer #2 Comment 2. Two models predict primitive forewing patterning for
Lepidoptera: “vein-fork” model and “wing-margin” Model. Micropterigidae fit the
“wing margin” model. The location of the plesiomorphic branch of Sc was predicted
based on the microlepidopteran wing pattern.
The authors proposed “the branch of Sc known only from Agathiphaga occurs
precisely in the location predicted by studies of microlepidopteran wing pattern.”
I think it is better to illustrate that Agathiphaga is consistent with the predictions of
the model proposed for Microlepidoptera firstly. And then get their conclusion.
Response. We are not sure exactly how to address this comment, but we have
mentioned the relevance of the “wing-margin” model in the first paragraph of the
Results. We have also added the term ‘“wing-margin” model’ to the manuscript for
the sake of continuity with previous publications.
Reviewer #2 Revision 3. P12 Reference. 12 Simonsen, T. J. & Kristensen, N. P. 2001
Agathiphaga wing vestiture revisited: evidence for complex early evolution of
lepidopteran scales (Lepidoptera: Agathiphagidae). Insect Syst. Evol. 32, 169–175.
(doi:10.1017/CBO9781107415324.004).
This doi number is incorrect. It should be “doi: 10.1163/187631201X00128”.
Response. We have revised the manuscript accordingly.
Please let us know if there is any other way in which we can improve our
manuscript. We look forward to the publication of our study in Royal Society Open
Science.
On behalf of both authors, sincerely yours,
Sandra R. Schachat
Research Student and NSF Graduate Research Fellow
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
National Museum of Natural History
Paleobiology, MRC-121, P.O. Box 37012
Washington DC 20013-7012
(202) 633-1382 Phone
(202) 786-2832 Fax
schachatsr@si.edu
Society Open
