Unexpected consequences of a drier world: evidence that
delay in late summer rains biases the population sex ratio of
an insect
Raul Bonal , Marisa Hernández, Josep M. Espelta, Alberto Muñoz and José M. Aparicio
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150198.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150198
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 May 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 2 July 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 August 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal following peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150198.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No but a statement of data available from the authors on request will suffice for data of the
nature of this study.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I am pleased to see this revised version of a paper I reviewed previously for Biology Letters.
The revised version of the manuscript is a large improvement over the first version and the
authors have addressed the comments made by myself and the other reviewer largely to an
adequate degree. However, I still have four concerns, which should be easily remedied by the
authors. 1) The sex ratio data should be analysed by generalised linear mixed models (GLMM),
stating a binomial error structure, not by a linear mixed model. In R a new dependent variable
needs to be computed using the ‘cbind’ function (male count (numerator), female count
(denominator) that will construct a variable male/male + female), to accomplish this. 2)
Presentation of the statistical test results in the text is fairly limiting. I think the addition of one or
more tables of the models used for testing, and their resulting parameters, will give the reader
more information. The format for this new journal will allow for more space than Biology Letters
and by doing so the paper will be improved. 3) The authors need to be more careful in places
when interpretation some of their results and tone down some of the language in places (see
below for more specific comments). 4) Although the English of the paper has been improved, it
still lacks clarity in places and needs some further revision, especially in the discussion. Again, I
give some more detailed comments below as this should be more helpful than a general demand
to simply ‘improve the English.’
Lines 25-26. This sentence can be interpreted as to state that animal life history variation in some
way contributes to climate change. The first sentence in the abstract is the one most read so any
ambiguities such as this needs to be removed.
Line 28. By reactivate do you mean rainfall acts as a cue to end diapause?
Line 66. ‘Other than in many reptile species that have temperature-dependent sex
determination…’
Line 67. Briefly include definitions of primary and secondary sex ratios.
Line 75. Protandrous.
Line 87. dig their way out….
Line 91. More strongly than female emergence and the population sex ratio may become..
Line 106. Temperatures may reach 40OC. (Check the manuscript throughout to make it more
concise in a similar manner.)
Line 112. (in 17 years no rain was recorded)
Line 127. [13]. However, …….surface so dry, hard soil at critical times may reduce emergence
rates.
Line 131. …after the first rainfall of late summer.
Line 135. ..prematurely. Once larvae…… Do you mean the adults bury themselves, or each adult
buries an acorn? The second part of the sentence is unclear.
3
Line 140. How were the trees selected?
Line 152. What is meant by ‘revised’? Do you mean checked and emptied? Or replaced?
Line 160. I do not understand what you mean by ‘what minimizes differences between sites.
Line 168. The GLIMix is a SAS procedure. I think you should simply state GLMM (the same thing
in R).
Line 169. For GLMM, state for all models which errors were used. See above for comments on sex
ratio data.
Line 172. Variability should read ‘variance.’
Line 183. A linear mixed model is incorrect as sex ratio data are bounded (0 to 1). Use a GLMM
with binomial errors instead and present the results in table format.
Line 196. See comment above.
Line 198. ‘By last’ should read ‘finally.’
Line 199. I do not understand what is meant by ‘precipitation phonological patterns.’ Please
clarify.
Line 206. Do you mean one and a half months per year every year for five consecutive years?
Line 208. It is here that it is clear that presenting the results in a table would be more informative.
Line 212. Fig 1). By contrast….
Line 228. I think the overall five-year average sex ratio of 0.5 needs to be mentioned in the
discussion. Taking the 93 year average rainfall patterns and the coefficients of the models for the
current data (not presented) were 0.5 sex ratios normal? Are there any rainfall predictions for the
area over the next few decades that will enable sex ratios be predicted in the future? I know this
adds to what data are presented, but I think this needs at least to be mentioned in the discussion
albeit briefly. This is because there is a danger of going beyond what the data show if a long term
predicted average turns out to be 0.5. This may make a topic for a new paper so maybe a mention
in the conclusion is appropriate.
Line 243. ..has the potential to affect the sex ratios of some organisms. (Saying effects sex ratio is
strictly going a bit beyond what the data show.)
Line 246. We think that females may be less….. See comments above. Many do not agree but the
word ‘believe’ needs careful use in scientific writing.
Lines 255-256. The first part of this sentence is not clear and needs re-writing. Are you simply
stating the study did not present direct evidence of a male-biased mortality caused by dry soil?
Lines 261-270. This paragraph can be made more concise by stating the 93 year record showed
that 2011 had unusual rainfall, which coincided with a male-biased sex ratio.
Line 276. Rainfall is an important factor in determining variation in Curcuillo spp. life histories.
Line 278. ..compensate for unpredictability.
4
Line 279. Do the females produce single broods consisting of offspring that have the potential to
emerge over a three year period? Giving details in the natural history section of the paper would
be better that introducing this point in the discussion.
Line 285. By ‘dead risk’ do you mean increased risk of mortality?
Line 313. I do not understand this sentence. Please re-write with increased clarity.
Line 318. I think there has been much attention on the changing phenology of organisms in
relation to climate change so mentioning some well-known studies would be useful (e.g. birds
nesting earlier, plants flowering earlier). Then bring attention to the new data presented here in
accordance to sex ratios.
Line 422. What do the lines represent? How were the shapes and slopes calculated? Same goes for
all figures with lines.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150198)
02-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Bonal,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Unexpected consequences of a drier world: evidence
that delay in late summer rains biases the population sex ratio of an insect") has now received
comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the
referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 25-Jun-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
5
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150198)
>>> Dear Editor,
We have revised the manuscript making all the changes suggested by the reviewers. Please
find below how we have addressed each of the points raised by them. We hope that the
revised version of the manuscript fulfills the requirements for publication at Royal Society
Open Science.
Sincerely,
Raul Bonal
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I am pleased to see this revised version of a paper I reviewed previously for Biology Letters.
The revised version of the manuscript is a large improvement over the first version and the
authors have addressed the comments made by myself and the other reviewer largely to an
adequate degree. However, I still have four concerns, which should be easily remedied by
the authors. 1) The sex ratio data should be analysed by generalised linear mixed models
(GLMM), stating a binomial error structure, not by a linear mixed model. In R a new
dependent variable needs to be computed using the ‘cbind’ function (male count
(numerator), female count (denominator) that will construct a variable male/male +
female), to accomplish this. 2) Presentation of the statistical test results in the text is fairly
limiting. I think the addition of one or more tables of the models used for testing, and their
resulting parameters, will give the reader more information. The format for this new
journal will allow for more space than Biology Letters and by doing so the paper will be
improved. 3) The authors need to be more careful in places when interpretation some of
their results and tone down some of the language in places (see below for more specific
comments). 4) Although the English of the paper has been improved, it still lacks clarity in
places and needs some further revision, especially in the discussion. Again, I give some
more detailed comments below as this should be more helpful than a general demand to
simply ‘improve the English.’
>>>> We agree with the 4 points raised by the reviewer. 1) As requested, we have repeated
the sex ratio analyses using generalised linear mixed models (GLMM) stating a binomial
7
error structure. We used the R analysis procedure suggested. The results do not change
with respect to the previous tests but it is true that the way suggested by the reviewer is
the proper way to analyse it; 2) The results of the sex ratio analyses, as well as the results of
the other GLMMs, are now presented in two tables in which the parameters of the tests are
shown with more detail; 3 and 4) We have followed all the reviewers suggestions and have
made all the changes in order to improve the discussion arguments and the language clarity
throughout the text.
Please find below with more detail how we have dealt with the reviewer´s suggestions.
Lines 25-26. This sentence can be interpreted as to state that animal life history variation in
some way contributes to climate change. The first sentence in the abstract is the one most
read so any ambiguities such as this needs to be removed.
>>>> We have rewritten the sentence to remove any ambiguity. It is now clear that is
climate change what has an effect on animal populations. It now reads “The complexity of
animal life histories make difficult to predict the consequences of climate change on their
populations” (Line 26)
Line 28. By reactivate do you mean rainfall acts as a cue to end diapause?
>>>> Not really, what we know in the case of this species is that the accumulation of
degree-days is what triggers the end of the diapause. What we mean by “reactivate” is that
rainfall allows adults to leave their underground refuges, where they are confined, and
become active in the sense that after emergence they are able to reproduce and complete
their life-cycle. We explain this (Lines 29 to 31).
Line 66. ‘Other than in many reptile species that have temperature-dependent sex
determination…’
>>>> We have changed the sentence as requested (Lines 67 to 68).
Line 67. Briefly include definitions of primary and secondary sex ratios.
>>>> We explain this clearly in the revised version of the manuscript (Lines 69 to 71). We
have changed the definition a little bit as, strictly, primary sex ratio is the sex-ratio at the
time of conception and the secondary sex-ratio the ratio at birth or hatching. Tertiary sex
ratio is the ratio at maturity, and this is the variable for which we have the population data
in the case of the acorn weevil (Curculio elephas). We are consistent using this terminology
throughout the manuscript.
8
Line 75. Protandrous.
>>>> Changed (Line 78).
Line 87. dig their way out….
>>>> Done (Lines 90)
Line 91. More strongly than female emergence and the population sex ratio may become..
>>>> Done (Lines 94 to 95)
Line 106. Temperatures may reach 40OC. (Check the manuscript throughout to make it
more concise in a similar manner.)
>>>> We have changed this sentence as requested (Lines 109 to 110) and have tried to be
more concise throughout the text.
Line 112. (in 17 years no rain was recorded)
>>>> Done (Lines 114 to 115)
Line 127. [13]. However, …….surface so dry, hard soil at critical times may reduce
emergence rates.
>>>> The sentence has been changed as requested (Lines 129 to 131).
Line 131. …after the first rainfall of late summer.
>>>> Done (Lines 133 to 134).
Line 135. ..prematurely. Once larvae…… Do you mean the adults bury themselves, or each
adult buries an acorn? The second part of the sentence is unclear.
>>>> No, the larvae are the ones that bury themselves. They leave the acorn and bury
themselves underground. We agree that the sentence could be confusing and we have
rewritten it again in the revised manuscript (Lines 137 to 140).
Line 140. How were the trees selected?
>>>> We selected them randomly, this is indicated in the revised text (Line 145)
Line 152. What is meant by ‘revised’? Do you mean checked and emptied? Or replaced?
9
>>>> We mean checked and emptied. We now specify what we did (Line 157)
Line 160. I do not understand what you mean by ‘what minimizes differences between
sites.
>>>>We mean that there are not mountains between the meteorological station and the
study site that might change the rainfall patterns between sites. We explain this better now
(Lines 163 to 167).
Line 168. The GLIMix is a SAS procedure. I think you should simply state GLMM (the same
thing in R).
>>>> Done (Line 174)
Line 169. For GLMM, state for all models which errors were used. See above for comments
on sex ratio data.
>>>> We now specify the errors used for all GLMMs in the Methods section as well as in the
legend of the two new tables that include a more detailed report of the results.
Line 172. Variability should read ‘variance.’
>>>>We have removed this word from the text after rewriting the sentence.
Line 183. A linear mixed model is incorrect as sex ratio data are bounded (0 to 1). Use a
GLMM with binomial errors instead and present the results in table format.
>>>> We have repeated the sex ratio analyses using a GLMM with binomial errors. The
results of GLMMs are now presented in two new tables.
Line 196. See comment above.
>>>> We have repeated the sex ratio analyses using a GLMM with binomial errors. The
results of GLMMs are now presented in two new tables.
Line 198. ‘By last’ should read ‘finally.’
>>>>Done (Line 201).
Line 199. I do not understand what is meant by ‘precipitation phonological patterns.’ Please
clarify.
10
>>>> We refer to the temporal distribution patterns of precipitation. It is specified in the
revised version of the manuscript (Line 203).
Line 206. Do you mean one and a half months per year every year for five consecutive
years?
>>>>Yes (Lines 208 to 209)
Line 208. It is here that it is clear that presenting the results in a table would be more
informative.
>>>> Done (please see the two new tables)
Line 212. Fig 1). By contrast….
>>>>Done (Line 214).
Line 228. I think the overall five-year average sex ratio of 0.5 needs to be mentioned in the
discussion. Taking the 93 year average rainfall patterns and the coefficients of the models
for the current data (not presented) were 0.5 sex ratios normal? Are there any rainfall
predictions for the area over the next few decades that will enable sex ratios be predicted
in the future? I know this adds to what data are presented, but I think this needs at least to
be mentioned in the discussion albeit briefly. This is because there is a danger of going
beyond what the data show if a long term predicted average turns out to be 0.5. This may
make a topic for a new paper so maybe a mention in the conclusion is appropriate.
>>>> We agree that this is an important point and, as suggested, we have included it in the
Discussion. We now make clear that, under the current environmental conditions, the sex
ratio deviations are punctual and compensated when several study years are considered.
However if, as predicted, the frequency of dry summers in the Mediterranean increases,
such unbalances in the proportion of sexes might persist. We then discuss the
consequences in the particular case of the model species (Lines 305 to 308).
Line 243. ..has the potential to affect the sex ratios of some organisms. (Saying effects sex
ratio is strictly going a bit beyond what the data show.)
>>>> We agree. The sentence has been changed as suggested (Lines --).
Line 246. We think that females may be less….. See comments above. Many do not agree
but the word ‘believe’ needs careful use in scientific writing.
11
>>>>Done (Line 249).
Lines 255-256. The first part of this sentence is not clear and needs re-writing. Are you
simply stating the study did not present direct evidence of a male-biased mortality caused
by dry soil?
>>>> That is exactly what we meant. We have now changed that sentence as suggested to
make it shorter and easier to understand (Lines 259 to 260).
Lines 261-270. This paragraph can be made more concise by stating the 93 year record
showed that 2011 had unusual rainfall, which coincided with a male-biased sex ratio.
>>>>Done (Lines 264 to 265).
Line 276. Rainfall is an important factor in determining variation in Curcuillo spp. life
histories.
>>>>We agree that it was necessary to be more concrete in this sentence. We now specify
the unpredictable environmental factors that condition Curculio spp. life histories. As
suggested, we have included rainfall as one of them, but also food availability because
different studies point at the extreme inter-annual variability in acorn crops as a main
factor promoting bet-hedging strategies in this species (Line 279).
Line 278. ..compensate for unpredictability.
>>>>Done (Line 282)
Line 279. Do the females produce single broods consisting of offspring that have the
potential to emerge over a three year period? Giving details in the natural history section of
the paper would be better that introducing this point in the discussion.
>>>>We agree, it is now introduced in the natural history section in Methods (Lines 140 to
142).
Line 285. By ‘dead risk’ do you mean increased risk of mortality?
>>>>Yes, that is what we mean. This has been rewritten (Line 289).
Line 313. I do not understand this sentence. Please re-write with increased clarity.
>>>>We have rewritten this sentence (Lines 320 to 323). We think that it is now clearer, we
want to say that, as in the case of C. elephas the delay of late summer rainfall would, in any
case, bias the sex ratio towards females, the consequences for the viability of its
12
populations would be reduced. The consequences would be worst for those species in
which females emerge before, as an increased female mortality, with the consequent male
biased sex ratio, could reduce the effective population size.
Line 318. I think there has been much attention on the changing phenology of organisms in
relation to climate change so mentioning some well-known studies would be useful (e.g.
birds nesting earlier, plants flowering earlier). Then bring attention to the new data
presented here in accordance to sex ratios.
>>>>We have included two new references of two classical large-scale studies reporting the
effects of climate change on bird laying dates and female flowering phenology. After that,
we bring attention to the new data we present, that show the potential effects of climate
change not on the reproductive timing but on the observed population sex ratio (Lines 325
to 333).
Line 422. What do the lines represent? How were the shapes and slopes calculated? Same
goes for all figures with lines.
>>>> The continuous and dashed lines represent the relationship between the date of the
beginning of late summer rain and female and male emergence dates, respectively. We
have rewritten this to make the meaning clearer (Lines 479 to 481). We have kept the lines
in Figure 2 because the analysis used was a linear model (ANCOVA) that assumes a linear
relationship between the dependent variable and the covariate. Moreover, when the two
lines are represented it is easy to see the significant interaction between the covariate and
the independent factor, that is, the differences between males and females regarding the
effect of the date of the beginning of late summer rain on emergence date (reflected in the
different slopes of the lines). We have removed the line from Figure 3 because we agree
that it did not match well with the new way of analysing the sex ratio by means of a GLMM
with a binomial distribution of errors.
Society Open
