1
Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer: a novel method for standardized micro-
computed-tomography-guided evaluation of scaffold properties in
bone and tissue research
Fabian Westhauser, Christian Weis, Melanie Hoellig, Tyler Swing, Gerhard Schmidmaier, Marc-
André Weber, Wolfram Stiller, Hans-Ulrich Kauczor and Arash Moghaddam
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150496.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150496
Review timeline
Original submission: 17 September 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as submitted
Revised submission: 12 October 2015 by the referee. The review history appears in
Final acceptance: 13 October 2015 chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150496)
06-Oct-2015
Dear Mr Westhauser
Thank you for submitting your revised manuscript to Royal Society Open Science in response to the
reviewers' comments in Journal of the Royal Society Interface. On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to
inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150496 entitled "Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer:a novel method for
standardized micro-computed-tomography-guided evaluation of scaffold properties in bone and tissue
research" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revisions
requested by the Associate Editor
The handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your
manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your manuscript. Please also
take care to ensure that the below editorial comments are fully addressed.
• Ethics statement
Thank you for stating that ethical approval and informed consent was received for the use of human
subjects in your study. Please also include the name of the committee that approved the study in your
statement. Please also include full information regarding patient demographics in your methods section
and detail why you chose the patients you did and how you decided on the sample size of patients.
Please also remove table one and instead give the ratio of females to males in your study and the age range
of participants.
2
Thank you also for providing details of approval for use of animals in your study and for providing
information on animal treatment. Please provide the name of the committee that approved the study in the
ethics section and include details of the animal sacrifice procedure in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
Thank you for stating that scaffold data are available from dryad. However please also make your source
code freely available. We appreciate your wish to tailor your algorithm to users needs however we require
you to make the basic source code freely available so that your results are fully reproducible. You can add
this to your dryad data package using the link below.
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150496
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing
interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Thank you for including an Authors' contributions section in your manuscript. However in order to adhere
to our authorship policy each author must meet ALL of the below criteria.
1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation
of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval
of the version to be published.
We note that at present one author is listed as having carried out lab work and one is listed as having
helped with manuscript drafting. These contributions alone are not sufficient to meet our authorship
criteria.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the
revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 15-Oct-2015). If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author Centre,
where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under "Actions," click
on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of
the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document
any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions) and figure
captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be
produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please ensure you
have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user account
3
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your data as
electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi within your
manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers, vancouver
referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Luca Cardelli
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Francois Fages):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Dear authors
It is my pleasure to inform you that your communication is basically accepted for publication in Open
Science journal.
However we ask you to add to the text or supplementary material those information given as answers to
the reviewers that would be relevant to the readers as well. For instance, the coefficients of variation for
scaffold volume or for paired constructs you give as answers to reviewers (to point 1) should probably be
added in your article or supplementary material. Similarly, the information you give as answers to points 6
and 10 may be worth mentioning in your communication.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150496
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150496
MS Title: Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer:a novel method for standardized micro-computed-tomography-
guided evaluation of scaffold properties in bone and tissue research
MS Authors: Westhauser, Fabian; Weis, Christian; Hoellig, Melanie; Swing, Tyler; Schmidmaier, Gerhard;
Weber, Marc-André; Stiller, Wolfram; Kauczor, Hans-Ulrich; Moghaddam, Arash
Contact Author: Fabian Westhauser
Contact Author Email: fabianwesthauser@gmx.de
Contact Author Address 1: Schlierbacher Landstraße 200a
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Heidelberg
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: Germany
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 69118
Keywords: micro-computed tomography, Scaffold characterization, Bone tissue engineering, Bone scaffold,
BMP-7 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein-7), human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC)
Abstract: Bone tissue engineering and bone scaffold development represent two challenging fields in
orthopedic research. Micro-computed-tomography (mCT) allows non-invasive measurement of these
4
scaffolds’ properties in-vivo. However, the lack of standardized mCT analysis protocols and, therefore, the
protocols’ user-dependency make interpretation of the reported results difficult.
To overcome these issues in scaffold research, we introduce the Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer. For evaluation
of our technique, we built ten bone-inducing scaffolds, which underwent mCT acquisition before ectopic
implantation (T0) in mice, and at explantation eight weeks thereafter (T1). The scaffolds' 3D reconstructions
were automatically segmented using fuzzy clustering with fully automatic level-setting. The scaffold itself
and its pores were then evaluated for T0 and T1.
Analyzing the scaffolds’ characteristic parameter-set with our quantification method showed bone
formation over time. We were able to demonstrate that our algorithm obtained the same results for basic
scaffold parameters (e.g. scaffold volume, pore number, and pore volume) as other established analysis
methods. Furthermore, our algorithm was able to analyze more complex parameters, such as pore size
range, tissue mineral density, and scaffold surface.
Our imaging and post-processing strategy enables standardized and user-independent analysis of scaffold
properties, and therefore is able to improve the quantitative evaluations of scaffold-associated bone tissue-
engineering projects.
EndDryadContent
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150496.R1)
13-Oct-2015
Dear Mr Westhauser,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer:a novel method for
standardized micro-computed-tomography-guided evaluation of scaffold properties in bone and tissue
research" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the editorial
office (emilie.aime@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during
that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your
paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model (http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your
article will be published straight into the next open issue and this will be the final version of the paper. As
such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers. As the issue version of your paper will be the only
version to be published I would advise you to check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made
once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your paper to
selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with the name and
email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued contributions to
the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
***************************
5
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150496.R1
Article Status: ACCEPTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150496.R1
MS Title: Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer:a novel method for standardized micro-computed-tomography-
guided evaluation of scaffold properties in bone and tissue research
MS Authors: Westhauser, Fabian; Weis, Christian; Hoellig, Melanie; Swing, Tyler; Schmidmaier, Gerhard;
Weber, Marc-André; Stiller, Wolfram; Kauczor, Hans-Ulrich; Moghaddam, Arash
Contact Author: Fabian Westhauser
Contact Author Email: fabianwesthauser@gmx.de
Contact Author Address 1: Schlierbacher Landstraße 200a
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Heidelberg
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: Germany
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 69118
Keywords: micro-computed tomography, Scaffold characterization, Bone tissue engineering, Bone scaffold,
BMP-7 (Bone Morphogenetic Protein-7), human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC)
Abstract: Bone tissue engineering and bone scaffold development represent two challenging fields in
orthopedic research. Micro-computed-tomography (mCT) allows non-invasive measurement of these
scaffolds’ properties in-vivo. However, the lack of standardized mCT analysis protocols and, therefore, the
protocols’ user-dependency make interpretation of the reported results difficult.
To overcome these issues in scaffold research, we introduce the Heidelberg-mCT-Analyzer. For evaluation
of our technique, we built ten bone-inducing scaffolds, which underwent mCT acquisition before ectopic
implantation (T0) in mice, and at explantation eight weeks thereafter (T1). The scaffolds' 3D reconstructions
were automatically segmented using fuzzy clustering with fully automatic level-setting. The scaffold itself
and its pores were then evaluated for T0 and T1.
Analyzing the scaffolds’ characteristic parameter-set with our quantification method showed bone
formation over time. We were able to demonstrate that our algorithm obtained the same results for basic
scaffold parameters (e.g. scaffold volume, pore number, and pore volume) as other established analysis
methods. Furthermore, our algorithm was able to analyze more complex parameters, such as pore size
range, tissue mineral density, and scaffold surface.
Our imaging and post-processing strategy enables standardized and user-independent analysis of scaffold
properties, and therefore is able to improve the quantitative evaluations of scaffold-associated bone tissue-
engineering projects.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150496)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Dear Prof. Dr. Cardelli, Prof. Dr. Fages, and Emilie Aimé,
Thank you for accepting our manuscript for publication in Open Science. Once again, we could profit
using your helpful comments regarding our submission. As requested, the following list will give you a
detailed overview concerning your previous comments and the changes we performed:
List of Comments:
1. Ethics statement. Please also include the name of the committee that approved the study in your
statement. Please also include full information regarding patient demographics in your methods
section and detail why you chose the patients you did and how you decided on the sample size
of patients.
Answer: we added the missing information to the text (Page 4, Lines 106f.). Demographics were
added to the text as well (Page 5, Lines 110f.).
2. Please also remove table one and instead give the ratio of females to males in your study and
the age range of participants.
Answer: we removed Table one (SM) and added the information as recommended above and
added the range of the participant´s age (Page 5, Line 111).
3. Thank you also for providing details of approval for use of animals in your study and for
providing information on animal treatment. Please provide the name of the committee that
approved the study in the ethics section and include details of the animal sacrifice procedure in
your methods section.
Answer: details of the approval were added to the text (Page 4, Line 108). We added details
about the sacrifice procedure to the text (Page 6, Line 146).
4. Data accessibility:
Answer: we added the algorithm to our dryad package.
5. Competing interests:
Answer: we expanded our Competing Interests Statement (Page 22, Lines 549ff.).
6. Authors contributions:
Answer: we updated the contribution of the mentioned authors. All of the authors made
substantial contribution to the manuscript and fulfil the criteria mentioned.
7. Funding statement:
Answer: Fabian Westhauser, Melanie Hoellig, Tyler Swing, Gerhard Schmidmaier, and Arash
Moghaddam are employees of the Center of Orthopedics, Traumatology, and Spinal Cord
Injury, Heidelberg University Hospital.
Christian Weis, Marc-André Weber, Wolfram Stiller, and Hans-Ulrich Kauczor are employees
of the Clinic of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology (DIR), Heidelberg University Hospital.
8. The coefficients of variation for scaffold volume or for paired constructs you give as answers
to reviewers should be added to the text or supplementary material.
Answer: we added the variation for scaffold volume or for paired constructs to the manuscript
(Page 14, Lines 342ff.).
9. Add the information concerning point 6 to the text.
Answer: we added the requested information to the manuscript (Page 19, Lines 472ff.).
10. Add the information concerning point 10 to the text.
Answer: as recommended, we added the information concerning the limitations of using a model
of spherical-shaped model for the estimation of pore sizes to the discussion (Page 19, Lines
490ff).
The newly added text is written in bold letters within the manuscript.
I hope the revision accomplishes your proposals.
We are looking forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Fabian Westhauser, Christian Weis, and Arash Moghaddam
Society Open
