Identification of 16,25-O-diacetyl-cucurbitane F and 25-O-
acetyl-23,24-dihydrocucurbitacin F as novel anti-cancer
chemicals
Wenxue Wang, Haoran Yang, Ying Li, Zhongfei Zheng, Yongjun Liu, Haiyang Wang,
Yanling Mu and Qingqiang Yao
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180723.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180723
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 May 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180723.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting paper that describes two quite different observations: the isolation and
structure determination of seven new analogues of natural products; and further biological
studies on two known but related natural products. While at the outset it was not possible to
determine whether the new compounds would be biologically active, they rather unfortunately
are not. As a consequence, the work seems split into two different studies, which normally
would constitute two manuscripts. These would match the readership: natural product chemists
would read the natural product component, while biologists would likely read only the biological
part. As such, it seems unreasonable to combine both parts.
With respect to the natural product isolation part, the work has been carefully conducted, and is
fully supported by spectra in the SI (which however needs to be cited in the manuscript so that it
is available as a link to the reader, not just the reviewers). The results reveal seven new but
closely structurally related natural products. As such, this is an extension of prior work and does
not meet the requirement for novelty for publication in a top-tier journal, although it would be
fine for a specialist journal.
The biological part extends our knowledge of the known bio-activity of known compounds 8 and
9 to show how they act on cell cycle progression, and this is useful new data, but again it seems
rather like a fragmented part of a larger study. As the authors themselves admit at the end of the
work, nothing is known about the molecular mode of action of these and related compounds yet
the present study does nothing to change that. Biological chemists would therefore be much less
likely to have an interest in the work.
There is a number of minor typos and grammatical errors throughout the manuscript. For
example, in 2.3, the yield of 8 and 9 are reported in grams: not impossible but I suspect milli-
grams. I am not sure what the first sentence of the "conclusion" means: what is a "tiny change"? I
think ketone to alcohol is a massive change! The authors mean "irregular" not "unregular"; "but
they could made..." makes no sense. The rest of this section is also not well written.
Overall, this is interesting work but I cannot recommend publication in the present form.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
1) The characterization and spectral assignments for compounds 1-7appears to have been carried
out carefully and the results seem reliable. \
2) No comment is made by the authors on why cell line 29 was chosen by the authors since in
their previous investigation of the anti-tutor activity of compound 8, they used other cell Ines.
The reason for the change and the significance of cell line HT29 shold be given.
3) The authors should provide more detail on how their results differ from and/or add to the
previously reported results by them on. the anti-tutor activity of compound 8 and the results
reported by others on the anti-tumor activity of compound 9.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180723.R0)
20-Jun-2018
Dear Miss Wang:
Title: Identification of 16,25-O-diacetyl-cucurbitane F and 25-O-acetyl-23,24-dihydrocucurbitacin
F as novel anti-cancer chemicals
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180723
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
4
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180723
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 29-Jun-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
6
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The referees seem to be somewhat split with regard to the suitability of this manuscript doe
publication in this journal. Both agree that the isolation studies are carefully done and I tend to
agree with them. On the other hand, the lack of biological activity of compounds 1-7 is
unfortunate, but understandable give the uncertainties of natural product work. In the end, I
think the work as a whole is appropriate for this journal. But, I do agree with referee 2 that the
authors need to clarify how different the biological studies of compounds 8 and 9 are to what is
already reported (references 9 and 10). They should also address the grammatical issues raised by
referee 1, along with any other comments.
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper that describes two quite different observations: the isolation and
structure determination of seven new analogues of natural products; and further biological
studies on two known but related natural products. While at the outset it was not possible to
determine whether the new compounds would be biologically active, they rather unfortunately
are not. As a consequence, the work seems split into two different studies, which normally
would constitute two manuscripts. These would match the readership: natural product chemists
would read the natural product component, while biologists would likely read only the biological
part. As such, it seems unreasonable to combine both parts.
With respect to the natural product isolation part, the work has been carefully conducted, and is
fully supported by spectra in the SI (which however needs to be cited in the manuscript so that it
is available as a link to the reader, not just the reviewers). The results reveal seven new but
closely structurally related natural products. As such, this is an extension of prior work and does
not meet the requirement for novelty for publication in a top-tier journal, although it would be
fine for a specialist journal.
The biological part extends our knowledge of the known bio-activity of known compounds 8 and
9 to show how they act on cell cycle progression, and this is useful new data, but again it seems
rather like a fragmented part of a larger study. As the authors themselves admit at the end of the
work, nothing is known about the molecular mode of action of these and related compounds yet
the present study does nothing to change that. Biological chemists would therefore be much less
likely to have an interest in the work.
There is a number of minor typos and grammatical errors throughout the manuscript. For
example, in 2.3, the yield of 8 and 9 are reported in grams: not impossible but I suspect milli-
grams. I am not sure what the first sentence of the "conclusion" means: what is a "tiny change"? I
7
think ketone to alcohol is a massive change! The authors mean "irregular" not "unregular"; "but
they could made..." makes no sense. The rest of this section is also not well written.
Overall, this is interesting work but I cannot recommend publication in the present form.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
1) The characterization and spectral assignments for compounds 1-7appears to have been carried
out carefully and the results seem reliable. \
2) No comment is made by the authors on why cell line 29 was chosen by the authors since in
their previous investigation of the anti-tutor activity of compound 8, they used other cell Ines.
The reason for the change and the significance of cell line HT29 shold be given.
3) The authors should provide more detail on how their results differ from and/or add to the
previously reported results by them on. the anti-tutor activity of compound 8 and the results
reported by others on the anti-tumor activity of compound 9.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180723.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180723.R1)
11-Jul-2018
Dear Miss Wang:
Title: Identification of 16,25-O-diacetyl-cucurbitane F and 25-O-acetyl-23,24-dihydrocucurbitacin
F as novel anti-cancer chemicals
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180723.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
8
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
The authors have done a good job addressing the comments and concerns raised by the previous
review. I recommend publication at this time.
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
June 29, 2018
Dear Mr. Foley:
I have pleasure in submitting our revision entitled as “Identification of
16,25-O-diacetyl-cucurbitane F and 25-O-acetyl-23,24-dihydrocucurbitacin F as novel anti-cancer
chemicals” (RSOS-180723). Many thanks for the insightful comments and suggestions of the referees. I
have made corresponding revision according to their advice, and the revised parts of the manuscript were
marked in blue, while the yellow background indicated that some words were deleted. The responses to
the reviewers' questions and suggestions are listed in item by item as follows.
Editor:
1. I do agree with referee 2 that the authors need to clarify how different the biological studies of
compounds 8 and 9 are to what is already reported (references 9 and 10).
Thanks for your comments. Compound 8 was first reported in our group and had previously only been
screened for cytotoxic activity. Compound 9 as the main component of the plant was only reported as its
effect on lung cancer A549 cells. In the latest study, based on the screening results of sensitive cell lines,
we conducted a preliminary anti-tumor mechanism research, so as to provide direction for the molecular
mechanism research. In addition, we compared the activities of those two compounds to help elucidate
the structure-activity relationship. In the revised manuscript, we have added the relevant content in
“ 1.Introduction”.
2. They should also address the grammatical issues raised by referee 1, along with any other comments.
Thanks for your comments. We have modified the manuscript carefully in accordance with the referee 1
suggestions.
Referee 1:
1. SI in the Data accessibility section have been revised.
Our data are deposited at Dryad: http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.9fv054f.
2. The biological part extends our knowledge of the known bio-activity of known compounds 8 and 9 to
show how they act on cell cycle progression, and this is useful new data, but again it seems rather like a
fragmented part of a larger study.
Thanks for your comments. Our systematic study included research on the chemical constituents and
their bioactivities as whole in order to provide the basis for further research and development of H.
pengxianensis var. jinfushanensis with both chemical and bioactivity results. Therefore, we
comprehensively reported the results of all study in this article. So far, our assays in this paper are
preliminary and not strong or deep experimentals. Many proteins including cell cycle-related proteins,
cell apoptosis-related proteins, and cytoskeleton-related proteins really require our further research.
Thanks for your ideas again.
3. There is a number of minor typos and grammatical errors throughout the manuscript.
Thanks for your comments. I have checked the manuscript carefully and modified the typos and
grammatical errors as much as possible.
4. For example, in 2.3, the yield of 8 and 9 are reported in grams: not impossible but I suspect
milli-grams.
Thanks for your comments. Compounds 8 and 9 are abundant in this plant and they exhibited strong
anti-tumor activity, so we separated them thoroughly as much as possible. The units (grams) of 8 and 9
were right.
5. I am not sure what the first sentence of the "conclusion" means: what is a "tiny change"? I think
ketone to alcohol is a massive change! The authors mean "irregular" not "unregular"; "but they could
made..." makes no sense.
Thanks for your comments. I am sorry that this sentence was not clear in the original manuscript. The
1H-NMR spectrum signals’ overlap of triterpenoids is often serious due to the presence of many
methylene and methine groups with similar chemical environments. Therefore, it is difficult to infer the
structure only through the 1H-NMR spectrum data. The "tiny change", such as the configuration of the
hydroxyl group in C-11, not refers to ketone to alcohol. The 13C-NMR spectrum data are less affected by
the solvent, which play a more important role in inferring structure. In the revised manuscript, we deleted
this sentence and added two new sentences.
6. The rest of this section is also not well written.
Thanks for your comments. The systematic study of H. pengxianensis var. jinfushanensis included two
aspects of chemical constituents and pharmacological activity, so we discussed from two aspects in this
section. In the revised manuscript, we adjusted the order of some sentences and tried our best to modify
the sentences in this section.
Referee 2:
1. No comment is made by the authors on why cell line 29 was chosen by the authors since in their
previous investigation of the anti-tutor activity of compound 8, they used other cell Ines. The reason for
the change and the significance of cell line HT29 shold be given.
Thanks for your comments. Compound 8 were evaluated against multiple types of cancer cells (H460,
lung; SW460, colon; DU145, prostate). However, the corresponding mechanisms of compound 8
remained unstudied. We screened cell lines that are sensitive to compounds 8 and 9 before conducting
mechanism studies. The results are shown in the following table.
IC50(µmol/L)
Cell line
Compound 8 Compound 9 Cisplatin
A549 (lung) 1.25 ± 0.11 0.22 ± 0.02 3.68 ± 0.32
SW620 (colon) 3.55 ± 0.25 2.73 ± 0.21 1.76 ± 0.14
HT29 (colon) 0.69 ± 0.06 0.37 ± 0.025 4.87 ± 0.38
LOVO (colon) 2.45 ± 0.15 0.18 ± 0.017 1.76 ± 0.13
SKOV3 (ovarian cancer) 5.75 ± 0.34 5.67 ± 0.49 15.31 ± 0.98
HepG2 (liver) 6.88 ± 0.61 5.26 ± 0.78 3.24 ± 0.27
MCF-7 (breast cancer) 13.34 ± 0.24 11.65 ± 0.99 0.17 ± 0.015
As shown in table, the cytotoxicity of compounds 8 and 9 against A549, HT29 or SKOV3 was stronger
than that of cisplatin. However, the anticancer mechanism of compound 9 against A549 cells had been
reported. In addition, studies have shown that the incidence of colon cancer has increased year by year as
dietary habits have changed. So we studied the mechanism of action on colon cancer HT29 cells.
2. The authors should provide more detail on how their results differ from and/or add to the previously
reported results by them on. the anti-tutor activity of compound 8 and the results reported by others on
the anti-tumor activity of compound 9.
Thanks for your comments. Compound 8 was first reported in our group and had previously only been
screened for cytotoxic activity. Compound 9 as the main component of the plant was only reported as its
effect on lung cancer A549 cells. In the latest study, based on the screening results of sensitive cell lines,
we conducted a preliminary anti-tumor mechanism research, so as to provide direction for the molecular
mechanism research. In addition, we compared the activities of those two compounds to help elucidate
the structure-activity relationship. In the revised manuscript, we have added the relevant content in
“ 1.Introduction”.
The above content is our reply to the reviewers’ comments. Once again, we appreciate your
consideration of our manuscript. We look forward to your reply early.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Qingqiang Yao, Ph D,
Institute of Materia Medica
Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences,
E-mail: yao_imm@163.com
Society Open
