Big city Bombus: using natural history and land-use history
to find significant environmental drivers in bumble-bee
declines in urban development
Paul Glaum, Maria-Carolina Simao, Chatura Vaidya, Gordon Fitch and Benjamin Iulinao
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170156.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170156
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 February 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170156.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I enjoyed reading this paper. There is a lot of interest in urban ecology currently and urban
pollinator work particularly so. Looking at the effect of habitat change on male vs female
bumble bees is a really obvious thing to do, but I’m not aware of anyone else having done it
previously. The results presented here mostly make sense, especially the male vs female results,
and will provide some useful information on how bumblebees responds to urbanization. Bees
are a nice group to work with here as the males and females are likely to respond differently to
urbanization.
My comments are as follows:
Line 126: The shrinking city side of things is more of a local US problem I think and won’t be
familiar with readers from other countries. Moreover, there isn’t the replication that would be
needed to say much about the importance of shrinking cities as Detroit is the only one in the
study site that falls into this category.
Line 176:The sampling design worries me slightly as the most urbanized sites (those in Detroit)
were sampled the year after the other sites and so treatment (urbanization) is confounded with
place (the only city sampled that year is Detroit) and year (2015 could have been much better or
worse for bees, or the season much earlier/later). Year is fitted as a random effect (line 231) but
someone statistically more adroit than me needs to OK this as I remain unconvinced this solves
the problem, especially as these 2015 results seem to be driving the relationship in Fig 1 a and b.
Line 207: Summing each plant species area doesn’t give the floral resource at each site, it gives the
area of flowering plant. The level of floral resource depends on how much nectar is in each
flower; this a small area of a productive flower species could provide far more bee resource than
a larger area of a nectar-poor flower species.
Line 285-8: A figure would be really useful to make it clear what radius the statistical effect kicks
in at. I know it is 500m from the text, but I’m not 100% clear what this actually means in terms of
bumble bee nest location, flight distance and statistical effects. A figure would be really helpful
here.
Line 374: An increasing area of impervious surface will also affect floral and thereby nectar
abundance, as well as nest site availability.
Line 396: I’m not sure you can say anything very meaningful about a sample size that is n=5.
Line 604: p values don’t need to be this accurate, I would say p < 0.001 and leave it at that.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Love the title!
Throughout paper:
1. Bombus and various species of Bombus should be in italics
2. Inconsistent use of bumblebee and bumble bee. ESA prefers bumble bee
(https://entomologytoday.org/2014/05/06/is-it-honey-bee-or-honeybee-bed-bug-or-bedbug-
house-fly-or-housefly/)
Line 184: Did you really mean electronic microscope?
Line 195: development (not developed)
Lines 187 – 198: Don’t you mean impervious surfaces rather than impervious surface?
Line 204: “counted using a logarithmic scale” – really?
Figures 1 – 3
Your x axis says %Impervious Space, but your values go up to one percent. Shouldn’t your
numbers read from zero to one hundred percent?
Comments:
The paper flows nicely and the writing is clear and concise.
The paper addresses an important topic, that of the effects of urbanization on bumble bees.
Previous literature shows inconsistent effects of urbanization on bumble bee abundance and
diversity. I appreciate that the authors tried to tease out differences in different urban
environments that could account for these inconsistencies. I also thought they did a good job in
addressing differences in male and female abundance, something that many others have not
attempted to do.
My main issue with the paper is the use of the parabolic model. I am not a statistician, but to me,
the authors seem to be grasping at straws to make the data fit some kind of model.
Figure 1 shows most of the Detroit data points are from regions with a high percentage of
impervious space. Perhaps if there were sites with intermediate levels of impervious space (40-
50%) the figure would look quite different. The one red point on the left of the parabola looks
like an outlier where as it may simply be the only point sampled that had less than 80%
impervious space. I realize the authors qualify their use of the parabolic model (lines 392-394).
But in my opinion, the authors could present the information and still discuss the results in the
4
same way that they do, without referring to a parabolic model at all. The paper would still
support the claim that different urban habitats have different features that may affect abundance
and diversity.
Is there any evidence that cracks and fissures can support bee nests (line 401) and that vacant lots
support native plants (line 404)? I think of vacant lots as sites of invasive species. I would not
eliminate these statements, but it would be nice to have some supporting citations.
Overall, I would like to see this paper published with modifications.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170156)
14-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Glaum
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170156 entitled
"Big city Bombus: Using natural history and land use history to find significant environmental
drivers in bumble bee declines in urban development" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170156
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
5
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Mar-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
6
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I enjoyed reading this paper. There is a lot of interest in urban ecology currently and urban
pollinator work particularly so. Looking at the effect of habitat change on male vs female
bumble bees is a really obvious thing to do, but I’m not aware of anyone else having done it
previously. The results presented here mostly make sense, especially the male vs female results,
and will provide some useful information on how bumblebees responds to urbanization. Bees
are a nice group to work with here as the males and females are likely to respond differently to
urbanization.
My comments are as follows:
Line 126: The shrinking city side of things is more of a local US problem I think and won’t be
familiar with readers from other countries. Moreover, there isn’t the replication that would be
needed to say much about the importance of shrinking cities as Detroit is the only one in the
study site that falls into this category.
Line 176:The sampling design worries me slightly as the most urbanized sites (those in Detroit)
were sampled the year after the other sites and so treatment (urbanization) is confounded with
place (the only city sampled that year is Detroit) and year (2015 could have been much better or
worse for bees, or the season much earlier/later). Year is fitted as a random effect (line 231) but
7
someone statistically more adroit than me needs to OK this as I remain unconvinced this solves
the problem, especially as these 2015 results seem to be driving the relationship in Fig 1 a and b.
Line 207: Summing each plant species area doesn’t give the floral resource at each site, it gives the
area of flowering plant. The level of floral resource depends on how much nectar is in each
flower; this a small area of a productive flower species could provide far more bee resource than
a larger area of a nectar-poor flower species.
Line 285-8: A figure would be really useful to make it clear what radius the statistical effect kicks
in at. I know it is 500m from the text, but I’m not 100% clear what this actually means in terms of
bumble bee nest location, flight distance and statistical effects. A figure would be really helpful
here.
Line 374: An increasing area of impervious surface will also affect floral and thereby nectar
abundance, as well as nest site availability.
Line 396: I’m not sure you can say anything very meaningful about a sample size that is n=5.
Line 604: p values don’t need to be this accurate, I would say p < 0.001 and leave it at that.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Love the title!
Throughout paper:
1. Bombus and various species of Bombus should be in italics
2. Inconsistent use of bumblebee and bumble bee. ESA prefers bumble bee
(https://entomologytoday.org/2014/05/06/is-it-honey-bee-or-honeybee-bed-bug-or-bedbug-
house-fly-or-housefly/)
Line 184: Did you really mean electronic microscope?
Line 195: development (not developed)
Lines 187 – 198: Don’t you mean impervious surfaces rather than impervious surface?
Line 204: “counted using a logarithmic scale” – really?
Figures 1 – 3
Your x axis says %Impervious Space, but your values go up to one percent. Shouldn’t your
numbers read from zero to one hundred percent?
Comments:
The paper flows nicely and the writing is clear and concise.
The paper addresses an important topic, that of the effects of urbanization on bumble bees.
Previous literature shows inconsistent effects of urbanization on bumble bee abundance and
diversity. I appreciate that the authors tried to tease out differences in different urban
environments that could account for these inconsistencies. I also thought they did a good job in
addressing differences in male and female abundance, something that many others have not
attempted to do.
8
My main issue with the paper is the use of the parabolic model. I am not a statistician, but to me,
the authors seem to be grasping at straws to make the data fit some kind of model.
Figure 1 shows most of the Detroit data points are from regions with a high percentage of
impervious space. Perhaps if there were sites with intermediate levels of impervious space (40-
50%) the figure would look quite different. The one red point on the left of the parabola looks
like an outlier where as it may simply be the only point sampled that had less than 80%
impervious space. I realize the authors qualify their use of the parabolic model (lines 392-394).
But in my opinion, the authors could present the information and still discuss the results in the
same way that they do, without referring to a parabolic model at all. The paper would still
support the claim that different urban habitats have different features that may affect abundance
and diversity.
Is there any evidence that cracks and fissures can support bee nests (line 401) and that vacant lots
support native plants (line 404)? I think of vacant lots as sites of invasive species. I would not
eliminate these statements, but it would be nice to have some supporting citations.
Overall, I would like to see this paper published with modifications.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170156)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170156.R1)
13-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Glaum,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Big city Bombus: Using natural history
and land use history to find significant environmental drivers in bumble bee declines in urban
development" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
9
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
We are certainly very pleased to hear of the enthusiasm for the manuscript and thank the reviewers for
heir insightful comments. Also, we would like to thank the editors for allowing extra time to make edits
fter my University’s email difficulties made notification of the journal’s decision arrive late in my inbox.
We have addressed all the comments in detail including some additional references. Areas where more
nvolved changes were made are copied into this document, under the relevant reviewer comments. All of
ur responses and explanations are in the file labeled Response to Reviewer Comments.doc.
Best,
aul Glaum and co-authors
Dear Dr Glaum
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170156 entitled "Big
ity Bombus: Using natural history and land use history to find significant environmental drivers in
umble bee declines in urban development" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
cience subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
omments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
evisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Ethics statement
f your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including the
ame of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether informed
onsent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions, licences
nd/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
Ethics statement has been added to the end of the paper.
Data accessibility
t is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
nformation or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state
where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where
ossible of where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software
tc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section should list the
atabase, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been made publicly
vailable. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be
ppropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
f you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify your
urrent submission to dryad, please use the following link:
ttp://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170156
All pertinent data is accessible in the Supplementary Information.
Competing interests
lease declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing
nterests.
We declare no competing interests.
Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions section
which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of the
ollowing criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis
nd interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content;
nd 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence alignments,
articipated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the statistical analyses;
EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the study and helped
raft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for publication.
Author’s contributions are included.
Acknowledgements
lease acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
Acknowledgements are included.
Funding statement
lease list the source of funding for each author.
unding sources are included in statement.
lease note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We have
ncluded a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given heading is not
elevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is not relevant to
our work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the
evised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Mar-2017). If you do not think you will
e able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author Centre,
where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under "Actions,"
lick on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted
ersion of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the
eferees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to
ocument any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the
evised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions) and
igure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be
roduced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please ensure you
ave entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user account
) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your data as
lectronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi within your
manuscript
) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final form.
Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as
rovided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details where possible (authors,
rticle title, journal name).
upplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on the online
igshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each supplementary file
uring the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so please ensure these are accurate
nd informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files on figshare will be made available
pproximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can be
ttributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look forward
o receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
penscience@royalsociety.org
n behalf of Kevin Padian
ubject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
penscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
enjoyed reading this paper. There is a lot of interest in urban ecology currently and urban pollinator
work particularly so. Looking at the effect of habitat change on male vs female bumble bees is a really
bvious thing to do, but I’m not aware of anyone else having done it previously. The results presented
ere mostly make sense, especially the male vs female results, and will provide some useful information
n how bumblebees responds to urbanization. Bees are a nice group to work with here as the males and
emales are likely to respond differently to urbanization.
My comments are as follows:
Line 126: The shrinking city side of things is more of a local US problem I think and won’t be familiar
with readers from other countries. Moreover, there isn’t the replication that would be needed to say much
bout the importance of shrinking cities as Detroit is the only one in the study site that falls into this
ategory.
We agree that the term ‘shrinking cities’ is more common in the US and that the issue of shrinking cities
s more of an issue in the US than perhaps many other countries. However, the literature does reflect that
hrinking cities are not entirely a US issue:
Pallagst, Karina, Thorsten Wiechmann, and Cristina Martinez-Fernandez. Shrinking cities:
nternational perspectives and policy implications. Routledge, 2013.
While other countries may not use the term as frequently, academic researchers study the phenomenon of
hrinking former industrial sites in Scotland, France, Japan, etc. There are also studies of shrinking cities
n former mining cities in Korea, Australia, and China. Please see the above citation, Pallagst et al 2013, it
s a large publication with further citations within.
Additionally, this sentence helps describes the setting of Detroit and therefore this study. It delineates the
nique properties of Detroit compared to the other cities in the study. The term shrinking city is the
ommon short hand used to describe cities with Detroit’s characteristics:
Ryan, Brent D. "The restructuring of Detroit: City block form change in a shrinking city, 1900–2000."
Urban Design International 13.3 (2008): 156-168.
Not describing the background details of Detroit here would result in a less information being available to
he reader when the results across cities are presented. This section helps prime the reader with the
ecessary information required to understand the results.
To support these claims and give any interested reader sources for further reading we have changed this
ection to now read as follows (Line 126):
As such – and recent economic growth notwithstanding – it, along with many other post-industrial cities
xperiencing population decline, has been termed a ‘shrinking city’ [27, 37].”
Citations 37 and 38 are the Ryan and Pallagst citations listed above.
Line 176:The sampling design worries me slightly as the most urbanized sites (those in Detroit) were
ampled the year after the other sites and so treatment (urbanization) is confounded with place (the only
ity sampled that year is Detroit) and year (2015 could have been much better or worse for bees, or the
eason much earlier/later). Year is fitted as a random effect (line 231) but someone statistically more
droit than me needs to OK this as I remain unconvinced this solves the problem, especially as these 2015
esults seem to be driving the relationship in Fig 1 a and b.
The issue the reviewer had here is partially our fault with wording in the Materials and Methods section.
There are 6 sample sites in Detroit. Only 4 of those 6 sites were sampled in 2015. The other 2 Detroit
ample sites (as well as the sites in the other cities) were sampled in 2014. Therefore, it is not the case that
he Detroit data is entirely coming from a different year then the other sites. There are sites representing
ither year in Detroit. Given our original wording, this distinction is not made adequately clear. We
hanged the wording to now read (Line 175):
Due to permissions from managing organizations, four of the six Detroit sites had to be sampled in 2015.
This additional sampling was completed in order to increase the amount of data from sites with higher
rbanity. All other sites were sampled in 2014. No sites were sampled in both years.”
We also refer to Supplementary Table 1 which describes the sites sampled in each year. Hopefully this
hange clarifies the issue. Apologies for any confusion.
As for the issue of 2015 being a worse or better year for bees, this does not seem to be an influential
ffect in this data set since almost every Detroit site sampled (5/6) ended with approx. 20 individuals.
There is one outlier site in Detroit, site LG with 41 individuals (Fig 1). This site was from the 2014
ample year. Consequently, the parabolic model in Figure 1 is fit significantly even with the removal of
he 2015 sites. Fitting the model on only 2014 data does slightly change the parameter estimates, but the
it is still significant. I’ve included the summary statistics of that below:
* ; is overall Bombus abundance, is percent impervious space at 500m, = 11.88 with
= 8.91e-13, = 5.63 with p = 6.57e-13. Residual standard error: 11.47 on 24 degrees of freedom.
Therefore, we can conclude that the relationship displayed in Figure 1 is not driven by the 2015 data.
n fact, significant model fits can also be made removing the 2014 Detroit sites and using only the 2015
Detroit sites along with the rest of the 2014 sites (outside of Detroit). This is not necessarily an optimal
ption for publication, but does show the consistency of the higher Bombus abundance in Detroit across
ears. Here are the summary stats of that fit:
* ; is overall Bombus abundance, is percent impervious space at 500m, = 10.71 with
= 5.1 e-12, = 5.6 with p = 3.18e-14. Residual standard error: 10.79 on 26 degrees of freedom.
inally, in the experience of these authors, using year as a random effect is a common technique when
ealing with data across distinct periods/years. An example of it can be seen in the popular statistics book
Crawley (2013) The R Book, 2nd Edition pgs 798-799.
There are also numerous examples in the literature of authors using year as a random effect across an
rray of ecological studies:
chmidt, Niels M., et al. "Effects of grazing intensity on small mammal population ecology in wet
meadows." Basic and Applied Ecology 6.1 (2005): 57-66.
chwagmeyer, P. L., and Douglas W. Mock. "Parental provisioning and offspring fitness: size matters."
Animal Behaviour 75.1 (2008): 291-298.
Millon, Alexandre, Beatriz E. Arroyo, and Vincent Bretagnolle. "Variable but predictable prey
vailability affects predator breeding success: natural versus experimental evidence." Journal of Zoology
75.4 (2008): 349-358.
Mixing random (year in this model) and fixed effects (impervious surface percentage) in a single model
nly leads to problems of collinearity when both the random and fixed effects measure the same type of
ariable (time for instance). However, year and impervious surface measure completely different
ariables.
ome explanation of the 2014 parabola fit could be added to the submission, but would likely create a
oticeable interruption in the flow of the main paper. Therefore, it is the impression of the authors that it
may not be necessary. However, if discussion of this topic were to be added at the behest of the
ditors/reviewers, we feel it would likely be better suited for the Supplementary Information.
Line 207: Summing each plant species area doesn’t give the floral resource at each site, it gives the area
f flowering plant. The level of floral resource depends on how much nectar is in each flower; this a
mall area of a productive flower species could provide far more bee resource than a larger area of a
ectar-poor flower species.
While it is true that floral area is not an exact measurement of floral resources, area has been shown to
trongly correlate with pollen and nectar availability:
Weiner, C., M. Werner, K. Linsenmair, and N. Blüthgen. 2014. Land-use impacts on plant-pollinator
etworks: interaction strength and specialization predict pollinator declines. Ecology 95:466–474.
Of the flower species examined in their study, the authors found that pollen-volume/flower was strongly
orrelated with flower size (r=.62, p<0.001).
To address this comment and better support our methods, we have altered this passage to now read
L207):
The floral area of a single species at a site can then be calculated by multiplying the flower count by the
verage floral area for that species; flower area has been shown to be a good proxy for floral resource
vailability [45].”
Citation 45 is the Weiner et al. 2014 citation above.
Line 285-8: A figure would be really useful to make it clear what radius the statistical effect kicks in at. I
now it is 500m from the text, but I’m not 100% clear what this actually means in terms of bumble bee
est location, flight distance and statistical effects. A figure would be really helpful here.
We have added a figure that we think addresses the concerns of the reviewer. Please see Figure S2 in the
upplementary information and copied below.
n Figure S2, we show an example of the range of each buffer zone radius around a site. Each buffer zone
s colored differently and has the radius clearly marked to distinguish it from the other buffers. On the
igure legend, we have included a description of the effect of buffer zone radius/scale on the statistical
ignificance of the regressions shown in Figure 2, S4, and S6. The legend indicates the buffer radius/scale
eeded to see the strongest statistical effect size and the figure itself shows the physical representation of
hat scale.
Figure S2: Figure representing the four buffer zones inside of which the proportion of impervious surface
was measured around each site. The four buffer zones had distinct radii of 500m (white circle), 1km
(green circle), 1.5km (blue circle), and 2km (purple circle). The significance of the regressions shown in
Figures 2 (in the main paper), Fig S4, and Fig S6 increased as the buffer zone radius increased. For
example, in Figure 2, when impervious surface percentage was measured within 2km of each site, the
regression produced most significant model output with the highest effect size. Measuring impervious
surface at only 500m provided an insufficient measurement of impervious surface and consequently the
signal was lost.
We have added reference to this figure to main paper in Line 295:
Only upon measuring impervious surface at a scale in accordance with workers’ flight ability do
ignificant interactions become clear (Fig S2).”
Line 374: An increasing area of impervious surface will also affect floral and thereby nectar abundance,
s well as nest site availability.
While we agree this is likely, we did not measure floral resources on this scale and cannot definitively
make this claim. Urban spaces cover the ground with more impervious surface, but more rural spaces do
ot necessarily replace impervious surface with floral resources. Much of the suburban land area is made
p of lawns with little to no floral resources despite the open grass space. Additionally, natural sites give
way to forest fragments and trees with comparatively little floral resources. Therefore, general floral
bundance going into cities is not necessarily a monotonically decreasing trend. In fact, floral abundance
nd diversity can often be comparatively high in urban spaces for various reasons (see citations below).
However, floral resources in cities have been found to often be homogenous across cities and made up of
arious non-native species:
McKinney, Michael L. "Urbanization as a major cause of biotic homogenization." Biological
onservation 127.3 (2006): 247-260.
Del Tredici, Peter. "Spontaneous urban vegetation: reflections of change in a globalized world."
Nature and Culture 5.3 (2010): 299-315.
This may contribute to a reduction in floral resources in city spaces for bumble bees. However, with the
igh degree of vacancies in Detroit, this may not be the case for our most urban sites in this study. Given
he various directions this discussion could go, we feel it is best to not delve into detail at this point in the
aper.
Line 396: I’m not sure you can say anything very meaningful about a sample size that is n=5.
There are actually 6 sites in Detroit. We agree that the small sample size is an issue and state that on Line
23 and 360 in the Results. We also only claim a lack of statistical significance and do not make claims
pecifically about trends inside of Detroit, only that the sites in Detroit break form a very strong trend
ound outside of Detroit.
Line 604: p values don’t need to be this accurate, I would say p < 0.001 and leave it at that.
Changed as suggested.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Love the title!
Throughout paper:
. Bombus and various species of Bombus should be in italics
We found non-italicized ‘Bombus’ in the key words list and the figures (both the main paper and the
upplementary Information. All those instances of non-italicized ‘Bombus’ were italicized.
We did not find non-italicized ‘Bombus’ or individual species in the paper, Supplementary Information,
r the figure legends. If there are any instances of the word ‘Bombus’ or any species of Bombus that are
till not italicized, please inform us and we will change them as soon as we can. We also are happy to
ave journal editors make this change during copy-editing if they are willing.
. Inconsistent use of bumblebee and bumble bee. ESA prefers bumble bee
https://entomologytoday.org/2014/05/06/is-it-honey-bee-or-honeybee-bed-bug-or-bedbug-house-fly-or-
ousefly/)
Thank you for the link. We have changed bumblebee to bumble bee throughout the paper to remain
onsistent with the ESA preference. We left ‘bumblebee’ in a few of the citation titles in the Literature
Cited section as that was original article title.
Line 184: Did you really mean electronic microscope?
Given the reviewers comment, we agree that ‘electronic’ is not the best term to use here. We have
hanged it to “digital microscope.” After checking further, this seems to be the most common moniker for
microscopes using a digital camera to project a large picture on a monitor.
Line 195: development (not developed)
Changed as commented.
Lines 187 – 198: Don’t you mean impervious surfaces rather than impervious surface?
While we see how this could possibly be used either way, we are using the term impervious surface (not
urfaces) as it is a term used commonly in the literature:
hilpott et al 2013 Urban Ecosyst.
otter & Lebuhn 2015 Urban Ecosyst
ortel et al 2014 Plos One
Line 204: “counted using a logarithmic scale” – really?
Yes. However, we should have been clear that it is a modified logarithmic scale (i.e. 1-10 blooms, 11-50,
1-100, 101-200, 201-500, 501-1000, >1000). We have made changes to address this oversight. The
method originated in citations below.
McFrederick QS & LeBuhn G. 2006. Are urban parks refuges for bumble bees Bombus spp.
Hymenoptera: Apidae)? Biological Conservation 129, 372 –382.
otter A & LeBuhn G. 2015. Pollination service to urban agriculture in San Francisco, CA. Urban
Ecosyst 18, 885–893. DOI 10.1007/s11252-015-0435-y
n order to more clearly explain the method, the passage now reads (Line 205):
Floral abundance of each species was estimated using a modified logarithmic scale (i.e. 1-10 blooms, 11-
0, 51-100, 101-200, 201-500, 501-1000, >1000) and species’ individual floral area was calculated by
veraging a representative sampling of individual flower areas for each species [43, 44].”
Citations 43 and 44 refer to the above citations.
igures 1 – 3
Your x axis says %Impervious Space, but your values go up to one percent. Shouldn’t your numbers read
rom zero to one hundred percent?
The reviewer is correct to point out the discrepancy here. Since we used proportion of impervious surface,
we have changed the axes to read “Prop. Impervious Surface”, rather than “%Impervious space.” We
ave made the necessary changes to other tables and figures as well as the text of the manuscript and
upplementary material.
Comments:
The paper flows nicely and the writing is clear and concise.
The paper addresses an important topic, that of the effects of urbanization on bumble bees. Previous
iterature shows inconsistent effects of urbanization on bumble bee abundance and diversity. I appreciate
hat the authors tried to tease out differences in different urban environments that could account for these
nconsistencies. I also thought they did a good job in addressing differences in male and female
bundance, something that many others have not attempted to do.
My main issue with the paper is the use of the parabolic model. I am not a statistician, but to me, the
uthors seem to be grasping at straws to make the data fit some kind of model.
igure 1 shows most of the Detroit data points are from regions with a high percentage of impervious
pace. Perhaps if there were sites with intermediate levels of impervious space (40-50%) the figure would
ook quite different. The one red point on the left of the parabola looks like an outlier where as it may
imply be the only point sampled that had less than 80% impervious space. I realize the authors qualify
heir use of the parabolic model (lines 392-394). But in my opinion, the authors could present the
nformation and still discuss the results in the same way that they do, without referring to a parabolic
model at all. The paper would still support the claim that different urban habitats have different features
hat may affect abundance and diversity.
We did not mean to claim that we are presenting evidence that parabolic models necessarily define
Bombus reactions to urban spaces. Given the type of urban spaces in Detroit, we agree that the figure
would likely look somewhat different if there were more points from 40-50% urbanity specifically from
Detroit. However, this would likely not be the case if points from the 40-50% range were added from
ities outside Detroit. The trend outside of Detroit is decidedly negative (especially with females).
We intended to use the figure partially to describe the analysis process we went through to arrive at the
esults that we are presenting and partially as a presentation tool to display the data and the trends within
he sampled data to the readers in a more easily readable way.
n giving preliminary presentations of this data to lab mates and departmental colleagues, we were often
old it would be useful to visualize the data to show the pertinent relationships discussed in the paper.
Without this figure (or the model fit), there would be less scaffolding of the idea that Detroit presents
nique landscapes to bumble bees. There would also be no visual representation of this idea. We feel that
emoving this figure would make the point about the differences seen inside and outside Detroit less
pparent to an initial reading of the paper.
The fit of the parabolic model is robust across years (see above reviewer’s comments), so the fit of the
model is significant even without the outlier that the reviewer points out here.
n an effort to make the purpose of the model fitting clear we have added an additional point to the
aragraph mentioned in this comment (line 397-403):
It is important to note that we do not argue that impervious surface necessarily creates a parabolic
elationship with bumble bee abundance or diversity. Instead, we argue that there is a clear negative effect
f increased impervious surface on bumble bee abundance and diversity exhibited in the 24 sites sampled
utside of Detroit. The sites sampled inside Detroit however, defy this relationship and were found to
ave higher abundance and diversity despite the increase in impervious surface. It was the parabolic fit
hat prompted splitting the analysis considering the unique context of Detroit’s urban spaces.”
s there any evidence that cracks and fissures can support bee nests (line 401) and that vacant lots support
ative plants (line 404)? I think of vacant lots as sites of invasive species. I would not eliminate these
tatements, but it would be nice to have some supporting citations.
After discussing this passage, we decided to alter this passage. There are cavity nesting bees that can nest
n small openings in buildings (such as mason bees) and there is evidence that feral honey bees are also
ble to make successful nests in cracks and fissures (Baum et al 2008):
Baum, KA, Tchakerian MD, Thoesnes SC, Coulsoun RN. 2008. Africanized honey bees in urban
nvironments: a spatio-temporal analysis." Landscape and Urban Planning 85(2): 123-132.
However, bumble bees are ground nesters. The original wording was meant to suggest that it is possible
hat cracks in concrete on the ground may create access to previously covered ground. However, the
anguage of “nesting in cracks” may create confusion with cavity nesting bees that can nest in cracks in
tructures. Additionally, this claim is more is a hypothesis based on the evidence in our paper and does
ot have barring on the actual results of the paper.
As for native plants; vacant lots have been shown to potentially function as important habitats for native
lants (Robinson and Lundholm 2012 below). However, as the reviewer points out, vacant lots are also
ften associated with invasive species of plants:
Robinson, Sarah L., and Jeremy T. Lundholm. "Ecosystem services provided by urban
pontaneous vegetation." Urban Ecosystems 15.3 (2012): 545-557.
However both floral types have been found to offer some support to various pollinator guilds.
Given this information we have changed the passage to a more concrete and easily supported statement
which now reads:
Vacancy may make lawns more suitable as they are less frequently mowed (and compacted). They are
lso less likely to be treated with pesticides or herbicides. Therefore these lots can provide various
lowering plants [57, 58] and suitable nesting substrate [24].”
4.) Cane JH, Minckley RL, Kervin LJ, Roulston TH, Williams NM. 2006. Complex Responses within a
Desert Bee Guild (Hymenoptera: Apiformes) to Urban Habitat Fragmentation Ecological Applications
6(2), 632-644.
7.) Harrison C & Davies G. 2002. Conserving biodiversity that matters: practitioners’ perspectives on
rownfield development and urban nature conservation in London. J Environ Manage 65:95–108.
8.) Robinson SL & Lundholm JT. 2012. Ecosystem services provided by urban spontaneous vegetation.
Urban Ecosystems 15(3): 545-557.
Overall, I would like to see this paper published with modifications.
*********************************************
Society Open
