Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls
of two weasel species
Scott LaPoint, Lara Keicher, Martin Wikelski, Karol Zub and Dina K. N. Dechmann
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160947.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160947
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 April 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 22 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 20 December 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 21 December 2016
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160265.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review of “Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two weasel species” by
LaPoint et al.
This MS is an analysis of ontogenetic and seasonal skull shape variation in weasels and stoats. It
presents a very large dataset of three cranial measurements: Condylobasal length, braincase
breadth, and braincase depth taken on 512 stoats and 847 weasels from three age classes. The
analysis leads the authors to conclude that both species exhibit a “growth overshoot in both the
absolute and standardized braincase depth” (p 4, lines 34-35) during ontogeny. And secondly,
that both species experience “seasonally-driven, reversible changes in the BDs… suggesting that
these species are able to modify the shape of their skulls after their sutures are fused and their
skull is fully ossified.” (p4, lines 50-51).
This paper is generally well written and the data set is extensive and the statistical approach is
complex. There are several areas that I believe need further elucidation in order for the evidence
presented to clearly support the conclusions.
In support of the conclusion that braincase depth experiences a growth overshoot the authors
present the following:
a. Age is a significant factor which accounts for a large part of the variation in BD and that
adults have a smaller standardized brain depth than juveniles. They then acknowledge that skull
shape changes (including reduction of relative braincase depth) are a widely known phenomenon
of ontogenetic growth patterns in mammals (page 4, lines 40-44). However, they claim that their
study shows that there is only a slight effect from change in skull length (CBL) and that the
majority of shape change is due to “braincase height rather than skull length, including an
overshoot in absolute size of the skull and thus the brain.” (page 4, lines 44-46).
First, it is unclear what the difference is between “skull length” and “absolute size of the skull”.
Please clarify the difference between these two measurements. Also, where is the data on the
absolute size of the skull?
Second, the claim above rests upon there being little change in skull length over ontogeny.
However, on page 4, lines 14-15 it is stated that juvenile weasels are significantly smaller than
older age classes.
Third, p-values are provided for female and male weasels showing that juveniles are sig smaller
than subadults and adults but no other statistical tests are provided. I would like to see the
following:
1. Statistical tests comparing each age class for each skull measurement.
2. Individual value plots with means and confidence intervals so that the measurements
can be compared directly and clearly.
3. The W statistic is for a nonparametric Wilcoxon test however the use of this test is not
mentioned in the methods. Why was this used and not a more powerful parametric test? If the
data is not normally distributed then a better alternative is a bootstrapped T-test which can easily
be done in R.
Fourth, even if there is a lot of change in braincase depth and little change in total skull length
over ontogeny it is still not clear how this is a “growth overshoot” and not just a normal non-
allometric developmental shape change. Please explain this clearly and in detail.
The second conclusion is in regards to seasonal changes in braincase depth in these two species
and specifically: “seasonally-driven, reversible changes in the BDs… suggesting that these species
are able to modify the shape of their skulls after their sutures are fused and their skull is fully
ossified.” (p4, lines 50-51).
In support of this conclusion the authors present statistical models which analyze relative
braincase depth (braincase depth/total skull length) as a function of Day of the Year (doy), age,
sex, and location (origin). They find that doy explains a proportion of the variation in relative
braincase depth and that relative braincase depth is higher from May – September. They also find
that sex, location and age explain a proportion of the variation in relative braincase depth (table
3
2). In addition, they find that there is an interaction between doy and location (table S2 and figure
3).
From table S2 and figure 3 it can be seen that the pattern of variation in relative braincase depth
over the year varies from location to location and none of the regions by themselves show as
consistent a pattern as is found when pooling the data in figure 2. The authors acknowledge this
in the caption to figure 3 “Generalized additive model predictions suggest that the presence,
magnitude, and timing of the seasonal patterns varies between sexes, species, and geographic
regions (shading indicates 95% Bayesian confidence intervals).” Therefore, in order to more
soundly support the claim that this is a trait of both species and that it isn’t due to changes in
local resources, an analysis within each location should be conducted separately.
In addition, the claims of seasonal changes are made only for the adults however in all of the
statistical models presented all age classes are included. If a separate analysis including only
adults that looked at the effect of sex, origin and doy was done then please include it in the MS.
Finally, I think that the evidence presented here is not very strong, there is a lot of scatter in the
data (e.g. weasels from Poland on figure 3 (bottom right)). Please provide statistics to
demonstrate how well the model fits for each location.
Also, this is observational evidence based on museum specimens. What years are these
specimens from? Has collection year been considered in the models?
In figure S3 the raw data for braincase depth and total skull length are presented alongside
relative braincase depth which is very helpful. Relative braincase depth can become reduced
because either the numerator (braincase depth) becomes smaller or because the denominator
(total skull length) becomes larger. Presenting both allows the reader to see which is happening
more clearly. I would suggest including these plots for figures 2 and 3 as well.
Also on Figure 2 please use different symbols to illustrate males and females – at least for the
adults.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Nick Milne)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two weasel species
4
The study examines developmental and seasonal changes in cranial dimensions in two species of
weasel. I have answered no to two questions (is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present
form? And Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?) However I think my
doubts can be overcome by fuller explanation of some of the issues expressed below.
The results show that during development the cranial height (“brain case depth BD”) decreases
from juvenile to subadult to adult. The methods state that the BD measurement excludes the
sagittal crest which is only present in adults. Although brain case volume is correlated (R~0.7)
with BD it does not necessarily follow that the brain volume decreases from juvenile to adult:
Younger specimens may have extensive pneumatisation inflating the cranium, and this may
reduce as the temporalis muscle and the sagittal crest develop fully. Are there broken specimens
where the level of pneumatisation can be seen in the three age categories? Could you comment
on the question of pneumatisation?
The brain volume correlates (r~0.94) more strongly with coronal cross-sectional area (CSA =
(BD/2)x(BB/2)xPi)). So its possible that cranial breadth (“brain case breadth BB”) is more closely
related to brain volume than BD, but no data or discussion of BB is provided.
The result also show seasonal changes in cranial height (BD) normalised for skull (condylobasal)
length. Regardless of whether this is reflected in brain volume, it is a very interesting result.
However the finding depends on the accuracy of data about the time of death of the specimens.
The date of collection was recorded for each specimen, however I am not satisfied that the date of
collection truly reflects the date of death. I feel that more discussion and explanation is required
on this point. Were the specimens collected as skeletons in the wild or were the recently
deceased weasels collected and skeletonised in the all the museums.
If the seasonal variation is confirmed, I wonder if the changes observed actually relate to brain
size variation or some other change in the cranium…
On the whole I think this is an interesting study reporting a fascinating finding and as such is
worthy of publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160265)
26-May-2016
Dear Dr LaPoint:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160265 entitled "Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls
of two weasel species" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed.
The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
5
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 23-Nov-2016. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Kevin Padian, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Monica Daley):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Two expert reviewers have evaluated your paper on morphometric analysis of skulls in stoats
and weasels. While both reviewers praise the potential contribution of this paper to the field,
they raise a number of specific concerns about the analysis and interpretation of the data, and
question whether the conclusions can be fully supported by the data given the number of
possible uncertainties and confounding variables. The reviewers provide specific constructive
comments on how the authors may be able to address these concerns. Therefore, I would be
happy to see resubmission of a revised version of this manuscript, along with a point-by-point
response addressing the issues raised.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of “Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two weasel species” by
LaPoint et al.
This MS is an analysis of ontogenetic and seasonal skull shape variation in weasels and stoats. It
presents a very large dataset of three cranial measurements: Condylobasal length, braincase
breadth, and braincase depth taken on 512 stoats and 847 weasels from three age classes. The
analysis leads the authors to conclude that both species exhibit a “growth overshoot in both the
absolute and standardized braincase depth” (p 4, lines 34-35) during ontogeny. And secondly,
that both species experience “seasonally-driven, reversible changes in the BDs… suggesting that
these species are able to modify the shape of their skulls after their sutures are fused and their
skull is fully ossified.” (p4, lines 50-51).
This paper is generally well written and the data set is extensive and the statistical approach is
complex. There are several areas that I believe need further elucidation in order for the evidence
presented to clearly support the conclusions.
In support of the conclusion that braincase depth experiences a growth overshoot the authors
present the following:
a. Age is a significant factor which accounts for a large part of the variation in BD and that
adults have a smaller standardized brain depth than juveniles. They then acknowledge that skull
shape changes (including reduction of relative braincase depth) are a widely known phenomenon
of ontogenetic growth patterns in mammals (page 4, lines 40-44). However, they claim that their
study shows that there is only a slight effect from change in skull length (CBL) and that the
majority of shape change is due to “braincase height rather than skull length, including an
overshoot in absolute size of the skull and thus the brain.” (page 4, lines 44-46).
6
First, it is unclear what the difference is between “skull length” and “absolute size of the skull”.
Please clarify the difference between these two measurements. Also, where is the data on the
absolute size of the skull?
Second, the claim above rests upon there being little change in skull length over ontogeny.
However, on page 4, lines 14-15 it is stated that juvenile weasels are significantly smaller than
older age classes.
Third, p-values are provided for female and male weasels showing that juveniles are sig smaller
than subadults and adults but no other statistical tests are provided. I would like to see the
following:
1. Statistical tests comparing each age class for each skull measurement.
2. Individual value plots with means and confidence intervals so that the measurements
can be compared directly and clearly.
3. The W statistic is for a nonparametric Wilcoxon test however the use of this test is not
mentioned in the methods. Why was this used and not a more powerful parametric test? If the
data is not normally distributed then a better alternative is a bootstrapped T-test which can easily
be done in R.
Fourth, even if there is a lot of change in braincase depth and little change in total skull length
over ontogeny it is still not clear how this is a “growth overshoot” and not just a normal non-
allometric developmental shape change. Please explain this clearly and in detail.
The second conclusion is in regards to seasonal changes in braincase depth in these two species
and specifically: “seasonally-driven, reversible changes in the BDs… suggesting that these species
are able to modify the shape of their skulls after their sutures are fused and their skull is fully
ossified.” (p4, lines 50-51).
In support of this conclusion the authors present statistical models which analyze relative
braincase depth (braincase depth/total skull length) as a function of Day of the Year (doy), age,
sex, and location (origin). They find that doy explains a proportion of the variation in relative
braincase depth and that relative braincase depth is higher from May – September. They also find
that sex, location and age explain a proportion of the variation in relative braincase depth (table
2). In addition, they find that there is an interaction between doy and location (table S2 and figure
3).
From table S2 and figure 3 it can be seen that the pattern of variation in relative braincase depth
over the year varies from location to location and none of the regions by themselves show as
consistent a pattern as is found when pooling the data in figure 2. The authors acknowledge this
in the caption to figure 3 “Generalized additive model predictions suggest that the presence,
magnitude, and timing of the seasonal patterns varies between sexes, species, and geographic
regions (shading indicates 95% Bayesian confidence intervals).” Therefore, in order to more
soundly support the claim that this is a trait of both species and that it isn’t due to changes in
local resources, an analysis within each location should be conducted separately.
In addition, the claims of seasonal changes are made only for the adults however in all of the
statistical models presented all age classes are included. If a separate analysis including only
adults that looked at the effect of sex, origin and doy was done then please include it in the MS.
Finally, I think that the evidence presented here is not very strong, there is a lot of scatter in the
data (e.g. weasels from Poland on figure 3 (bottom right)). Please provide statistics to
demonstrate how well the model fits for each location.
Also, this is observational evidence based on museum specimens. What years are these
specimens from? Has collection year been considered in the models?
In figure S3 the raw data for braincase depth and total skull length are presented alongside
relative braincase depth which is very helpful. Relative braincase depth can become reduced
because either the numerator (braincase depth) becomes smaller or because the denominator
(total skull length) becomes larger. Presenting both allows the reader to see which is happening
more clearly. I would suggest including these plots for figures 2 and 3 as well.
Also on Figure 2 please use different symbols to illustrate males and females – at least for the
adults.
7
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of
two weasel species
The study examines developmental and seasonal changes in cranial dimensions in two species of
weasel. I have answered no to two questions (is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present
form? And Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?) However I think my
doubts can be overcome by fuller explanation of some of the issues expressed below.
The results show that during development the cranial height (“brain case depth BD”) decreases
from juvenile to subadult to adult. The methods state that the BD measurement excludes the
sagittal crest which is only present in adults. Although brain case volume is correlated (R~0.7)
with BD it does not necessarily follow that the brain volume decreases from juvenile to adult:
Younger specimens may have extensive pneumatisation inflating the cranium, and this may
reduce as the temporalis muscle and the sagittal crest develop fully. Are there broken specimens
where the level of pneumatisation can be seen in the three age categories? Could you comment
on the question of pneumatisation?
The brain volume correlates (r~0.94) more strongly with coronal cross-sectional area (CSA =
(BD/2)x(BB/2)xPi)). So its possible that cranial breadth (“brain case breadth BB”) is more closely
related to brain volume than BD, but no data or discussion of BB is provided.
The result also show seasonal changes in cranial height (BD) normalised for skull (condylobasal)
length. Regardless of whether this is reflected in brain volume, it is a very interesting result.
However the finding depends on the accuracy of data about the time of death of the specimens.
The date of collection was recorded for each specimen, however I am not satisfied that the date of
collection truly reflects the date of death. I feel that more discussion and explanation is required
on this point. Were the specimens collected as skeletons in the wild or were the recently
deceased weasels collected and skeletonised in the all the museums.
If the seasonal variation is confirmed, I wonder if the changes observed actually relate to brain
size variation or some other change in the cranium…
On the whole I think this is an interesting study reporting a fascinating finding and as such is
worthy of publication.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160947)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160947.R0 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
8
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
For the above questions regarding whether the data, code and materials I answered No because
the code that was used was not provided. The data are available in the supplemental files. Please
provide the R code too.
For comments on the MS itself please see the attached pdf. (Appendix B)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160947)
12-Dec-2016
Dear Dr LaPoint
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160947 entitled
"Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two weasel species" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
9
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160947
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Dec-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
10
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
For the above questions regarding whether the data, code and materials I answered No because
the code that was used was not provided. The data are available in the supplemental files. Please
provide the R code too.
For comments on the MS itself please see the attached pdf.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160947)
See Appendix C.
11
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160947.R1)
21-Dec-2016
Dear Dr LaPoint,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Growth overshoot and seasonal size
changes in the skulls of two weasel species" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
May-2016
r Dr LaPoint:
nuscript ID RSOS-160265 entitled "Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two
sel species" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments
m reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
iew of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current
m. However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
ase note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that your
ubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
nuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
e you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login to your
hor Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a Resubmission"
ted next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting your manuscript.
r resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 23-Nov-2016. If you are unable to submit by this
e please contact the Editorial Office.
look forward to receiving your resubmission.
erely,
tthew Allinson,
orial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
behalf of
in Padian, Royal Society Open Science
nscience@royalsociety.org
ociate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Monica Daley):
ociate Editor: 1
ments to the Author:
expert reviewers have evaluated your paper on morphometric analysis of skulls in stoats and
sels. While both reviewers praise the potential contribution of this paper to the field, they raise a
ber of specific concerns about the analysis and interpretation of the data, and question whether the
clusions can be fully supported by the data given the number of possible uncertainties and
founding variables. The reviewers provide specific constructive comments on how the authors may
able to address these concerns. Therefore, I would be happy to see resubmission of a revised version
his manuscript, along with a point-by-point response addressing the issues raised.
Thank you for affording us the opportunity to address the comments, questions, and criticisms of the
ewers and yourself. The reviewers provided numerous helpful suggestions that have greatly improved
clarity and completeness of our manuscript. We carefully considered each point and have made
erous changes to the manuscript, including 3 new tables, 2 new figures, and substituted a
stantial part of our analyses with a more powerful bootstrapped t-test procedure. We did not
ever edit two of our figures per a reviewer request as we believed that the changes would not
rove clarity; see below for specifics. We identified some unclear/inconsistent wording (e.g.,
rchanging use of ‘depth’ with ‘height’) and have corrected these throughout the manuscript. We also
ed text on several instances for descriptions of newly presented methods and results, and to add
her detail to ambiguous information.
We have responded below to each point; all responses follow “***”. We have also included an
ge in the .doc for a response to a question raised by reviewer 2 and we refer them to the uploaded
oint_etal_response_to_reviewers.pdf.
We have taken each of comment into consideration and adopted the vast majority. The
rative, results, and conclusions of our manuscript has not changed despite the numerous changes.
manuscript is however, now much clearer and improved. We thank the reviewers for the careful and
ughtful reviews. They have greatly improved our manuscript and we hope the editor(s) see it worthy
publication.
Thank you for your time and energies.
Scott LaPoint, on behalf of my coauthors.
iewers' Comments to Author:
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
iew of “Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two weasel species” by LaPoint
l.
MS is an analysis of ontogenetic and seasonal skull shape variation in weasels and stoats. It
sents a very large dataset of three cranial measurements: Condylobasal length, braincase breadth,
braincase depth taken on 512 stoats and 847 weasels from three age classes. The analysis leads the
hors to conclude that both species exhibit a “growth overshoot in both the absolute and
dardized braincase depth” (p 4, lines 34-35) during ontogeny. And secondly, that both species
erience “seasonally-driven, reversible changes in the BDs… suggesting that these species are able to
dify the shape of their skulls after their sutures are fused and their skull is fully ossified.” (p4, lines
51).
paper is generally well written and the data set is extensive and the statistical approach is complex.
re are several areas that I believe need further elucidation in order for the evidence presented to
rly support the conclusions.
Thank you for the concise summary, compliments, and a thorough and thoughtful review of our
nuscript.
upport of the conclusion that braincase depth experiences a growth overshoot the authors present
following:
Before addressing the following specific comments, we remind readers that the growth overshoot is
n absolute measure; i.e., juvenile braincases are absolutely deeper than any other age group,
ardless of the skull length. It is important to keep this difference between absolute and relative (or
ndardized) measures in mind when interpreting the growth overshoot results and discussion.
Age is a significant factor which accounts for a large part of the variation in BD and that adults have
maller standardized brain depth than juveniles. They then acknowledge that skull shape changes
luding reduction of relative braincase depth) are a widely known phenomenon of ontogenetic
wth patterns in mammals (page 4, lines 40-44). However, they claim that their study shows that
re is only a slight effect from change in skull length (CBL) and that the majority of shape change is
to “braincase height rather than skull length, including an overshoot in absolute size of the skull and
s the brain.” (page 4, lines 44-46).
t, it is unclear what the difference is between “skull length” and “absolute size of the skull”. Please
ify the difference between these two measurements. Also, where is the data on the absolute size of
skull?
Thank you for identifying this ambiguity arising from our incorrect word choice. Where we chose
solute size”, we should have used “absolute depth”. We have edited this sentence (page 4, lines 58-59
larify and to add the emphasis on the absolute depth changes. Presenting data on the “absolute size”
he skull would be beyond the purpose of and methods employed within this manuscript (e.g.,
uiring geomorphometric methods). We believe our poor word choice implied that we measured
e”, perhaps in a 3-dimensional or volumetric manner, when we did not. We do however, as many
hors previously have, use condylobasal length as a proxy for body size for intra- and interspecific
parisons.
ond, the claim above rests upon there being little change in skull length over ontogeny. However, on
e 4, lines 14-15 it is stated that juvenile weasels are significantly smaller than older age classes.
Yes, juvenile weasels (but not stoats) do have significantly shorter skull lengths than the other age
egories. We must now point out that, with the addition of the bootstrapped t-tests (as per the
ewers request) it is possible that juvenile female Mustela erminea have significantly shorter skull
ths than adults and also male subadult M. nivalis have significantly shorter skulls than adults, but
se differences may have been obscured by the non-normal distribution of the raw data. Regardless,
do not believe that the claim above “rests upon there being little change in skull length over
ogeny” as this braincase depth data are in absolute metrics, not relative. Had these been
ndardized or relative depths, then changes in skull length would affect these results. In fact, juveniles
e significantly shorter skull lengths than other age classes (tables 1 and S3), thus their standardized
ncase depths exhibit an even more distinguished growth overshoot, making their growth overshoot
bsolute depth that much more remarkable. We’ve edited page 5 lines 24-30 to be clearer on these
terns as well.
d, p-values are provided for female and male weasels showing that juveniles are sig smaller than
adults and adults but no other statistical tests are provided. I would like to see the following:
Statistical tests comparing each age class for each skull measurement.
See response to point 3 below.
Individual value plots with means and confidence intervals so that the measurements can be
pared directly and clearly.
We have created Figure S3 showing frequency plots for condylobasal length, braincase breadth, and
ncase depth, separated by species, for each age and sex category. We added vertical dashed lines
wing the mean value for each category and metric. This allows readers to directly compare each
egory both in distribution of the data and their means. We have also added braincase breadth means
SEM) and variance information to Table 1. These two accommodations allow readers to directly see
distributions of the data and calculate extra statistics (including CI) via Table 1. Other graphical
resentations of these data (e.g., boxplots) were difficult to visualize since the confidence intervals
und the means are much narrower than the variance of the data. We also take this opportunity to
ind readers that the raw data are available for exploration with the manuscript.
The W statistic is for a nonparametric Wilcoxon test however the use of this test is not mentioned
he methods. Why was this used and not a more powerful parametric test? If the data is not normally
ributed then a better alternative is a bootstrapped T-test which can easily be done in R.
As per the reviewer’s suggestion, we executed a bootstrapping procedure. We wrote a small function
irst produce a new distribution of possible skull metric measurements sampled from the observed
h replacement), producing a normally distributed, new distribution of equal size to the observed for
h group of interest; e.g., a new distribution of braincase depth for juvenile female Mustela nivalis and
ew distribution of braincase depth for subadult female Mustela nivalis. We then performed a t-test
ween these new sampled distributions. We repeated this entire process 5000 times per comparison,
ampling and t-tests, tallying the number of times when the bootstrapped procedure produced t-
es greater than or equal to the observed t-value (absolute value). The tally divided by 5000 is our p-
e. We present these results in Table S3.
To summarize the findings, our conclusions drawn via either our original Wilcoxon test or the
tstrapping procedure do not change substantially. Although the bootstrapping procedure should be
e robust against non-normally distributed data, our conclusions regarding ontogenetic braincase
th changes imply that juveniles do exhibit the greatest absolute depths and these are not artifacts of
nile condylobasal lengths also being greater than other age categories; in fact, they are significantly
rter. We have modified Table 1 to show comparisons that are NOT significant (via superscript letters)
ween age-sex groups.
rth, even if there is a lot of change in braincase depth and little change in total skull length over
ogeny it is still not clear how this is a “growth overshoot” and not just a normal non-allometric
elopmental shape change. Please explain this clearly and in detail.
First, the term “non-allometric” is not completely clear to us. With allometric meaning a rate of size
nge that is not 1:1 (i.e., isometric; although isometric is in itself a form of allometry), we assume the
ewers use of “non-allometric” here is to imply the lack of a relationship. Second, it’s also important to
ember that we are not able to present a fully ontogenetic data set; to do so would require specimens
ery young, newly born individuals, or repeated measurements from known-aged individuals over
r lifetimes, however it’s reasonable to assume that these species are not larger in any dimension at
h than the dimensions of the specimens we were able to measure. Thirdly, most cases of
elopmental change are allometric, as allometry deals with relative measures. For example, relative
rt size and brain size, relative to body size show nearly isometric and hypoallometric, respectively,
tionships in humans. Such cases are common in nature, unlike the “normal non-allometric” claim of
reviewer. However, what is very uncommon, even rare to our knowledge, is the hyperallometric
tionship we find in weasel and stoat braincase depth relative to skull length. Rarer still is the absolute
pattern in braincase depth, where the juveniles exhibit depths greater than at any other point in
r lifetimes. This is literally an overshoot, a growth curve that peaks when individuals are juveniles,
t never again reaches this depth or height. Other cases where braincase depth is absolutely greater
e not been described to our knowledge, except in the red-toothed shrews (as discussed within the
nuscript). Additionally, “developmental shape change” implies a relative relationship; i.e., “shape”
uiring at least two dimensions. Again, for this section of our manuscript, we are not discussing
tive changes or “shape” (which the reviewer is correctly acknowledging as “normal”), but rather
nges in absolute dimensions. For illustration, human skulls undergo much shape change in the face
skull, yet no human would have a skull height greater as a toddler than as an adult (i.e., the
ivalent of what we see in the weasel and stoats).
We appreciate the reviewer’s comments here. They are a reminder to us to be clear in our
ing and motivated us to edit the manuscript to emphasize the clarifications we’ve made here in our
onses. See page 5 lines 24-30. We hope our response has clarified matters.
second conclusion is in regards to seasonal changes in braincase depth in these two species and
cifically: “seasonally-driven, reversible changes in the BDs… suggesting that these species are able to
dify the shape of their skulls after their sutures are fused and their skull is fully ossified.” (p4, lines
51).
upport of this conclusion the authors present statistical models which analyze relative braincase
th (braincase depth/total skull length) as a function of Day of the Year (doy), age, sex, and location
gin). They find that doy explains a proportion of the variation in relative braincase depth and that
tive braincase depth is higher from May – September. They also find that sex, location and age
lain a proportion of the variation in relative braincase depth (table 2). In addition, they find that
re is an interaction between doy and location (table S2 and figure 3).
m table S2 and figure 3 it can be seen that the pattern of variation in relative braincase depth over
year varies from location to location and none of the regions by themselves show as consistent a
tern as is found when pooling the data in figure 2. The authors acknowledge this in the caption to
re 3 “Generalized additive model predictions suggest that the presence, magnitude, and timing of
seasonal patterns varies between sexes, species, and geographic regions (shading indicates 95%
esian confidence intervals).” Therefore, in order to more soundly support the claim that this is a trait
oth species and that it isn’t due to changes in local resources, an analysis within each location should
onducted separately.
Thank you for the nice summary of our work. The reviewer is correct: the seasonal patterns we
erve (i.e., the significance of day of the year in the GAM) do vary geographically. To explore this
graphical variation, we used a subset of our total data set for which we could balance sample size
h a small spatial extent; i.e., our “origins”. Unfortunately, finding sufficient sample sizes for each
uping (e.g., only adults, only females, collected in Finland, with a roughly year-round date of
ection) is tremendously difficult. We believe that a combination or interaction between low sample
and/or insufficient spread in the day of collection for some sex-species-origin categories, e.g., male
stela erminea from Belgium, is partly responsible for some of the differences in the presence and
gnitude of the seasonal pattern between origins and greatly limited our abilities to explore these
terns between spatially-explicit areas.
The reviewer is also correct in that the GAM we ran on these spatially explicit subsets did differ
m the optimal GAM that we ran on the global dataset (seen in Table 2) and we thank the reviewer for
hlighting our omission. These analyses only included adults (since it was our intent to exclude age-
ted patterns and to focus on the seasonal pattern) and we ran models for each sex separately (since
sexes varied in the magnitude and shape of their response; Table S1). Removing these factors and
ng a GAM per origin produced a final GAM with only a smooth-termed day of the year as a factor.
s, the results shown graphically in Figure 3 are indeed produced by “an analysis within each location”
equested by the reviewer. This was our approach after (a) the “origin” term in the full GAM was
sent in each of the best global models and (b) we found that this GAM failed to find significant
terns in each origin separately; i.e., implying that the origins varied in their response (table S2)
It should be noted that despite removing all but one variable, the day of year still explained
ificant non-linear patterns in BDs (see Tables S4 & S5). We have added to the manuscript to better
cribe this process, since it was apparently unclear, but also desired. We also added sample sizes for
h sex-origin factor in Table S5. We thank the reviewer for flagging this lack of clarity.
ddition, the claims of seasonal changes are made only for the adults however in all of the statistical
dels presented all age classes are included. If a separate analysis including only adults that looked at
effect of sex, origin and doy was done then please include it in the MS.
Yes, the reviewer is correct, after age was identified as having a strong influence on BDs, we
uded juveniles and subadults from analyses for seasonal patterns to exclude potentially confounding,
ogenetic influences and to better reveal seasonal patterns. We added a sentence at page 5, lines 6-8.
created table S4 similar to Table 2 showing the GAM results.
lly, I think that the evidence presented here is not very strong, there is a lot of scatter in the data
. weasels from Poland on figure 3 (bottom right)). Please provide statistics to demonstrate how well
model fits for each location.
Our efforts to quantify potential seasonal changes in the braincase depths of these two species have
d numerous challenges. We correctly expected the magnitude of these seasonal changes to be small,
uiring a large sample size that would allow us to still identify these differences despite numerous
founding factors. Despite these factors, (e.g., ontogenetic drivers, sex-based effects, species-level
erences, day of collection, annual variability in climate, latitude effects, altitude effects, etc., most of
ch we could directly control for), we are still able to find a significant non-linear pattern in BDs in both
cies. We employed a statistical approach that is robust but also self-penalizing for increasing its noise
rance for the pattern; i.e., had we allowed the GAM more freedom, e.g., increasing the number of
ts, the GAM would have produced more significant results and could have found significant patterns
re we did not report them.
This manuscript is not the end of this story, but the first chapter. We have already begun
eriments to directly measure these seasonal patterns on free-ranging individuals, using combinations
olecular, field (repeated-x-rays of PIT-chipped individuals), and CT-scans to remove potentially
founding variables and to present these patterns with potentially less scatter. We would also like to
ind the reviewer that the referred to scatter is likely only 3 individuals, and yet the model was still
ust against these individuals. Noise/Scatter yes, but far less than one might expect from samples
ected during a century of varying climate and resource availability.
We have created Table S5 where information for each origin-sex combination per species (row) is
wn: sample size (n), standard error (SE), intercept, explained deviance (adjusted; R2), effective
rees of freedom (edf), log-likelihood (log(L)), second-order AIC (AICc), and the significance level of the
othed day of the year (p-value). We encourage readers to compare the lack of overlap between the
er and upper extent of the Bayesian confidence intervals between seasons rather than searching for
ificant p-values. We hope these efforts suffice to accommodate the reviewers and readers requests.
, this is observational evidence based on museum specimens. What years are these specimens
m? Has collection year been considered in the models?
Yes, this is observational evidence by necessity. The dataset attached with this manuscript includes
date of collection for each specimen, including the year. Despite the size of our dataset, we did not
sider ‘year’ as a factor; the sample size per year, per sex, per age, per species, per origin is too small.
onsider year directly in our analyses would require a minimum of 5 skulls for each of the 60 possible
-sex-species-origin combinations, multiplied by the number of years of interest (in our case over 100),
aning a data set of >30000 skulls. Ideally, one would have a long term data set of specimens collected
m a single location, but we do not, nor does anyone else. Additionally, we suspect that the within year
ation in temperature and/or resource availability is greater than that between years on a given
ndar date.
gure S3 the raw data for braincase depth and total skull length are presented alongside relative
ncase depth which is very helpful. Relative braincase depth can become reduced because either the
erator (braincase depth) becomes smaller or because the denominator (total skull length) becomes
er. Presenting both allows the reader to see which is happening more clearly. I would suggest
uding these plots for figures 2 and 3 as well.
We thank the reviewer for their compliment on Figure S3. We made a similar effort for Figure 2, but
e chosen not to publish it, for three reasons. One, duplicating the style of Figure S3 in Figure 2 would
duplicate the presentation of results. Figure S3 already shows half of the results that would be in the
sed Figure 2: condylobasal length, braincase depth, and relative braincase depth for adult female and
es. Second, for the other age categories (juveniles and subadults), readers should refer to Table 1 and
newly provided Figure S3 to visualize the distribution of condylobasal length, braincase depth, and
ncase width data. Lastly, because the timing of the appearance of juvenile and subadult age classes
rlap within the calendar year, it is very difficult to consistently display their 2-dimensional clustering
in Figure 2) clearly and logically; i.e., instances with high overlap.
We also explored similar ideas for Figure 3, but after several attempts we decided that an 18-
elled figure (3 subplots per origin-species combination) became too difficult to interpret, especially
n considering final publication sizes and constraints.
If the editor(s) make a strong request for these modified figures and offer suggestions for
matting, we will make efforts to accommodate.
on Figure 2 please use different symbols to illustrate males and females – at least for the adults.
We explored this request as well, but have chosen not to replace the version of Figure 2 originally
mitted. There is too much overlap between male and female adults (as also suggested by the GAM
dictions for both species), making the purpose of distinguishing between the sexes less meaningful.
hope the reviewer appreciates our efforts and will except our original versions. Additionally, these
e data are shown in Figure S3, where the sexes are distinguished separately.
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
wth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of two weasel species
study examines developmental and seasonal changes in cranial dimensions in two species of
sel. I have answered no to two questions (is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present
m? And Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?) However I think my doubts
be overcome by fuller explanation of some of the issues expressed below.
results show that during development the cranial height (“brain case depth BD”) decreases from
nile to subadult to adult. The methods state that the
measurement excludes the sagittal crest which is only
sent in adults. Although brain case volume is correlated
0.7) with BD it does not necessarily follow that the brain
me decreases from juvenile to adult: Younger
cimens may have extensive pneumatisation inflating the
nium, and this may reduce as the temporalis muscle and
sagittal crest develop fully. Are there broken
cimens where the level of pneumatisation can be seen
he three age categories? Could you comment on the
stion of pneumatisation?
brain volume correlates (r~0.94) more strongly with
onal cross-sectional area (CSA = (BD/2)x(BB/2)xPi)). So
ossible that cranial breadth (“brain case breadth BB”) is
re closely related to brain volume than BD, but no data
iscussion of BB is provided.
We thank the reviewer for their careful review and thoughtful question. We agree with the reviewer
t although braincase depth does correlate with braincase volume, correlation is a simple statistic and
R value suggests that braincase depth (or better coronal CSA) could be used as a suitable proxy for
n volume. We caution against over-interpreting this correlation to draw conclusions regarding brain
me however. The reviewer is also correct again: coronal CSA of the braincase is highly correlated
h braincase volume. We have no data to either refute nor support the reviewer’s suggestion that the
ogenetic patterns in braincase depth are a result of pneumatisation. We are unaware of any
ature on pneumatisation within these species. We did consult with Dr. Christian Dullin (University
dical Center Goettingen and Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A. di Interesse Nazionale) who provided
CT-scan images for Figure S1. Christian re-scanned each of the skulls shown in Figure S1 (albeit a
ll fraction of our total dataset) to render the interface between bone and airspace (i.e., potential
umatisation). His work revealed no signs of pneumatisation and further suggested that
eumatisation cannot change the shape of the skull since the bone will be still not be flexible” (taken
m email correspondence.
See a sample image at right. Darker lines indicate higher incidence of air-bone interfaces, i.e.,
estration or possible pneumatisation. Note that aside from changes within the auditory bullae and
rum, there are no noticeable changes within the braincase. Please disregard the darkening in the
ncase of the top skull: it is remnant brain material.
Anecdotally, while handling >2000 specimens I did not see signs of pneumatisation within the
ncase bones. Additionally and importantly, the parietal of these species is much thinner than the
erved braincase depth changes, thus pneumatisation alone is an insufficient, but not exempt,
lanation for the braincase depth changes. There are of course specimens in the visited collections
h broken and/or fractured braincases, but we were not prepared to investigate pneumatisation. We
e some evidence, but not presented here, from overlaying CT-scans of a juvenile and adult weasel
l that the depth change is not occurring with the bone, but rather an expansion of the braincase as a
le. We will further pursue our preliminary work with the CT-scans to explore and quantify our
ervations with repeated measures on live animals, but still do not expect a significant influence of
umatisation.
We have now presented results from comparisons between the age-sex-species categories in
ncase width (see the new modified Table 1) to accommodate this request.
result also show seasonal changes in cranial height (BD) normalised for skull (condylobasal)
th. Regardless of whether this is reflected in brain volume, it is a very interesting result. However
finding depends on the accuracy of data about the time of death of the specimens. The date of
ection was recorded for each specimen, however I am not satisfied that the date of collection truly
ects the date of death. I feel that more discussion and explanation is required on this point. Were
specimens collected as skeletons in the wild or were the recently deceased weasels collected and
etonised in the all the museums.
The reviewer raises a valid point touching on a major challenge for specimen-based research. Yes, in
ny institutions there can be more than one date associated with a specimen: date of collection and
e of preparation. Date of collection (which we used) marks the day when the animal was sacrificed
natural historians, accidental take, etc.), whereas date of preparation implies the date when the
mal was turned from a carcass to a specimen; i.e., a date after the date of collection. These two dates
be confused and at times used interchangeably, unfortunately. We took every precaution (including
sulting with collection managers and the original ledgers and “receipts” of collection managers who
chased specimens from collectors and expeditions in the past) to be certain that the date we used
ected the day the animal was killed. We’d also like to say that our final data set for this manuscript
heavily scrutinized for any potential ambiguities; our initial data set included >2400 specimens, but
analyzed data set includes exactly 1359 specimens, many excluded due to uncertainties in age class
gnment, sex, and vague location and/or date information. Our justification for amassing such a large
poral and spatial extent of specimens and the institutions responsible for collecting and maintaining
m was to buffer our results from such potential sources of uncertainty.
We added lines 14-15 page 3 to emphasize our attention to this potential ambiguity.
e seasonal variation is confirmed, I wonder if the changes observed actually relate to brain size
ation or some other change in the cranium…
We wonder the same thing! Only one study (Apfelbach & Kruska 1979, cited within ms) looked at
n size/volume in a Mustela species, but found no evidence of seasonal patterns. However, we argue
t the seasonal patterns are a result of energetic and resource availability fluctuations; stressors that
captive polecats, with constant food supplies and temperatures, of Apfelbach & Kruska did not need
ope with. These authors also had very few samples and used body mass as a standardization metric
ich can be sensitive to numerous events, including the timing of meals). We are currently preparing
eral manuscripts from the results of repeated measures (via –x-rays), histological investigations, and
scans from free-ranging shrews to better understand the seasonal patterns in brain volume.
the whole I think this is an interesting study reporting a fascinating finding and as such is worthy of
lication.
We thank the reviewer for their comments and support and we hope our accommodations are
reciated and sufficient.
pendix B
iew of “Growth overshoot and seasonal size changes in the skulls of
weasel species”
authors have done an excellent job of addressing many of the concerns that I had with the
er. I think it is now ready to be published as long as some minor areas are addressed. My
st important concern is in section 3.3. Here I would like to see the difference in BD described
more detail. M. nivalis do not have as much BD difference between juveniles and adults as
erminea. This should be pointed out, and within the text, the values for the percentage
erence should be included: [(mean of juv – mean of adult)/mean of adult]*100 for each
cies and sex (four values).
ond, I would like to see boxplots or individual value plots included in a supplemental figure
D by location for each species/sex/age and another for BD/CBL by location for each
cies/sex/age. I’ve included two examples below (of course you should make yours more
dable by using color and formatting them correctly – these are just quick sketches).
comments/requests of reviewer one below, following the hashtags '###'
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
For the above questions regarding whether the data, code and materials I answered No because the
code that was used was not provided. The data are available in the supplemental files. Please provide
the R code too. For comments on the MS itself please see the attached pdf.
###R code for the bootstrapping procedure has been provided as Supplementary Material as
Supplemental Code S1.
The authors have done an excellent job of addressing many of the concerns that I had with the paper. I
think it is now ready to be published as long as some minor areas are addressed.
### Thank you again for the compliments and for another thorough review.
My most important concern is in section 3.3. Here I would like to see the difference in BD described in
more detail. M. nivalis do not have as much BD difference between juveniles and adults as M. erminea.
This should be pointed out, and within the text, the values for the percentage difference should be
included: [(mean of juv – mean of adult)/mean of adult]*100 for each species and sex (four values).
### Please see page 5, lines 18-20.
Braincase depth (calculated from raw data, but similar results are achieved via Table 1):
M. nivalis, females = [(11.172540-9.933526)/9.933526]*100 = 12.47305
M. nivalis, males = [(12.209130-11.377617)/11.377617]*100 = 7.308323
M. erminea, females = [(14.315-12.259375)/12.259375]*100 = 16.76778
M. erminea, males = [(15.871724-13.885795)/13.885795]*100 = 14.30187
Second, I would like to see boxplots or individual value plots included in a supplemental figure of BD by
location for each species/sex/age and another for BD/CBL by location for each species/sex/age. I’ve
included two examples below (of course you should make yours more readable by using color and
formatting them correctly – these are just quick sketches).
### We have created figure S4, showing boxplots per sex, age, and origin grouping for both braincase
depth and standardized braincase depth and refer to this figure in section 3.3.
Society Open
