Energy scaling and reduction in controlling complex
networks
Yu-Zhong Chen, Le-Zhi Wang, Wen-Xu Wang and Ying-Cheng Lai
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160064.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160064
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 March 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 17 March 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160064.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The datasets used for the analysis of Fig4 are not provided. As they are probably taken from
Ref.10, the Authors could provide a reference to the repositories where these data are available.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In my opinion, the paper is an interesting contribution to the study of the controllability of linear
dynamical systems on networks. The authors show that most of the control energy is actually
spend to propagate the control along directed chains of edges that originate in the driver nodes.
The observe that the energy requirement along these chains increases exponentially with the
length of the chain. Hence, it is expected that the total control energy requirement could be
decreases by inserting additional driver nodes along these long control chains that could break
them into shorter pieces. They propose an heuristic algorithm to to that that seems to perform
much better in reducing the energy compared to more standard methods, such as that of adding
randomly redundant driver nodes.
The reduction of the energy calculation to LCC sounds meaningful, and I think it is correct,
however the way in which this is presented in the paper leaves some doubts, or at least some
unclear points.
1) The analytical derivation that E(t_f) \approx E_l is presented only for a 1D structure, where it
is intuitively expected to hold. Numerical results presented in Fig 2 for random graphs show that
<E> scales approximately linearly with E_L, but it would be important also to see that E_l scales
exponentially with the length l. This is shown in panel a, but only for a 1D network, whereas
numerical results for ER and BA should be also included (though not analytically accessible).
Note that the numerical scale on the vertical axis of Fig 2a is only partially visible.
2) The statistical arguments used in section 3.a to prove that P(E) is power-law with exponent
approximately 1.5 are unconvincing. The line of reasoning is clear to me up to equation 3.6. I can
also accept that the energy of the longest control chain is not correlated to the number of such
paths, because I suppose the control energy is mostly a property of the path, not on their
interaction (at least if we accept to neglect E^(2)). Still I find the argument used to show the
absence of correlation just as rough as such an intuition. But let assume this is correct. Then the
calculation in 3.9 is also problematic, because m E_Dc should be smaller than E, so by change of
variables the internal integral over m is computed from 0 up to E/E_Dc and the external from 0
to infinity. However m is an integer, therefore the contribution from the continuous
approximation in m = 0, as well as the external contribution for diverging E, is not physical. Does
it affect the result? In which way?
3) The double-chain experiment shows that the distribution is still power-law with approximately
the same exponent if cross-interactions are considered. Is there any result on the quantitative
change in the energy values? I mean, changing the fraction of cross-links, the energy value (prior
to the form of its distribution) is affected. How does the density of cross links affect the mean
energy value? Is the change always negligible with respect to the change obtained increasing the
chain length by one?
4) In section "Control energy reduction scheme", the Authors state that, on several real networks,
even when unlimited energy is supplied, the number of driver nodes predicted by the maximum
matching algorithm is not sufficient to control the dynamics because some nodes M* never
converge to their states. This is a very important result, that should be discussed in more detail in
the paper. Was this phenomenon observed before on such networks? Does it depend on some
structural property of the networks under study or of the linear dynamics considered?
3
The subject and the results presented in the paper are relevant and clearly deserve publication,
but only after the issues listed above are discussed in detail and the paper is revised accordingly.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Ron Chen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper is interesting. It presents some insight regarding control energy from a physical point
of view.
It is seemingly correct, with sufficient numerical evidence to support the claims.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160064)
07-Mar-2016
Dear Professor Lai
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160064 entitled
"Energy scaling and reduction in controlling complex networks" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160064
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Mar-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
In my opinion, the paper is an interesting contribution to the study of the controllability of linear
dynamical systems on networks. The authors show that most of the control energy is actually
spend to propagate the control along directed chains of edges that originate in the driver nodes.
The observe that the energy requirement along these chains increases exponentially with the
6
length of the chain. Hence, it is expected that the total control energy requirement could be
decreases by inserting additional driver nodes along these long control chains that could break
them into shorter pieces. They propose an heuristic algorithm to to that that seems to perform
much better in reducing the energy compared to more standard methods, such as that of adding
randomly redundant driver nodes.
The reduction of the energy calculation to LCC sounds meaningful, and I think it is correct,
however the way in which this is presented in the paper leaves some doubts, or at least some
unclear points.
1) The analytical derivation that E(t_f) \approx E_l is presented only for a 1D structure, where it
is intuitively expected to hold. Numerical results presented in Fig 2 for random graphs show that
<E> scales approximately linearly with E_L, but it would be important also to see that E_l scales
exponentially with the length l. This is shown in panel a, but only for a 1D network, whereas
numerical results for ER and BA should be also included (though not analytically accessible).
Note that the numerical scale on the vertical axis of Fig 2a is only partially visible.
2) The statistical arguments used in section 3.a to prove that P(E) is power-law with exponent
approximately 1.5 are unconvincing. The line of reasoning is clear to me up to equation 3.6. I can
also accept that the energy of the longest control chain is not correlated to the number of such
paths, because I suppose the control energy is mostly a property of the path, not on their
interaction (at least if we accept to neglect E^(2)). Still I find the argument used to show the
absence of correlation just as rough as such an intuition. But let assume this is correct. Then the
calculation in 3.9 is also problematic, because m E_Dc should be smaller than E, so by change of
variables the internal integral over m is computed from 0 up to E/E_Dc and the external from 0
to infinity. However m is an integer, therefore the contribution from the continuous
approximation in m = 0, as well as the external contribution for diverging E, is not physical. Does
it affect the result? In which way?
3) The double-chain experiment shows that the distribution is still power-law with approximately
the same exponent if cross-interactions are considered. Is there any result on the quantitative
change in the energy values? I mean, changing the fraction of cross-links, the energy value (prior
to the form of its distribution) is affected. How does the density of cross links affect the mean
energy value? Is the change always negligible with respect to the change obtained increasing the
chain length by one?
4) In section "Control energy reduction scheme", the Authors state that, on several real networks,
even when unlimited energy is supplied, the number of driver nodes predicted by the maximum
matching algorithm is not sufficient to control the dynamics because some nodes M* never
converge to their states. This is a very important result, that should be discussed in more detail in
the paper. Was this phenomenon observed before on such networks? Does it depend on some
structural property of the networks under study or of the linear dynamics considered?
The subject and the results presented in the paper are relevant and clearly deserve publication,
but only after the issues listed above are discussed in detail and the paper is revised accordingly.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is interesting. It presents some insight regarding control energy from a physical point
of view.
It is seemingly correct, with sufficient numerical evidence to support the claims.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160064)
See Appendix A.
ppendix A
March 15, 2016
ar Dr. Aime:
ank you for obtaining two referee reports on our manuscript entitled “Energy scaling and
uction in controlling complex networks.” We are grateful for your willingness to accept our
per, and we have made revisions to fully address all referee comments. The changes in the text
marked in red. A detailed, point-to-point response to all referee comments is enclosed.
wish to take this opportunity to thank both referees for their insightful comments that have
ulted in an improved paper. We would also like to thank you for handling our paper profes-
nally.
cerely,
ng-Cheng Lai
izona State University
the behalf of all co-authors)
Response to referee comments and description of changes made
feree 1
e reviewer stated “In my opinion, the paper is an interesting contribution to the study of
controllability of linear dynamical systems on networks. The authors show that most of the
ntrol energy is actually spend to propagate the control along directed chains of edges that orig-
te in the driver nodes. The observe that the energy requirement along these chains increases
onentially with the length of the chain. Hence, it is expected that the total control energy re-
rement could be decreases by inserting additional driver nodes along these long control chains
t could break them into shorter pieces. They propose an heuristic algorithm to to that that
ms to perform much better in reducing the energy compared to more standard methods, such
that of adding randomly redundant driver nodes.
The reduction of the energy calculation to LCC sounds meaningful, and I think it is correct,
wever the way in which this is presented in the paper leaves some doubts, or at least some
clear points.”
The reviewer’s specific comments have been addressed, as follows.
mment 1: “(1) The analytical derivation that E(tf ) ˜ El is presented only for a 1D struc-
e, where it is intuitively expected to hold. Numerical results presented in Fig 2 for random
phs show that < E > scales approximately linearly with EL , but it would be important also to
that El scales exponentially with the length l. This is shown in panel a, but only for a 1D
twork, whereas numerical results for ER and BA should be also included (though not analytically
essible). Note that the numerical scale on the vertical axis of Fig 2a is only partially visible.”
sponse: The numerical results for the ensemble averaged energy hEi versus the corresponding
C length L for ER and BA networks have been included in the inset in Fig. 2(b), and the
responding caption and the description in the text have been revised accordingly.
mment 2: “(2) The statistical arguments used in section 3.a to prove that P (E) is power-
with exponent approximately 1.5 are unconvincing. The line of reasoning is clear to me up to
ation 3.6. I can also accept that the energy of the longest control chain is not correlated to the
mber of such paths, because I suppose the control energy is mostly a property of the path, not on
ir interaction (at least if we accept to neglect E (2) ). Still I find the argument used to show the
ence of correlation just as rough as such an intuition. But let assume this is correct. Then the
culation in 3.9 is also problematic, because mED c should be smaller than E, so by change of
riables the internal integral over m is computed from 0 up to E/EDc and the external from 0 to
inity. However m is an integer, therefore the contribution from the continuous approximation
m = 0, as well as the external contribution for diverging E, is not physical. Does it affect the
ult? In which way?”
sponse: Since the probability Pm (m) has an exponential dependence on m and does not
plicitly contain the energy EDC , the summation in m from 1 to E/EDC is a finite geometric
m, which differs from the integral in only a constant coefficient and does not affect the algebraic
ling exponent 1 + b/B. In our analysis, the reason to treat m as a real valued number is that
relation E ˜ mEDC holds only in the order-of-magnitude sense, implying that E/EDC is
ically not an integer. The limits m <U+2192> 0 and EDC <U+2192> 8 correspond to the rare case where all
des in the network belong to one single LCC.
If we treat m (1 = m = E/EDC ) as an integer and accordingly set the integral upper bound
EDC as E (as the referee suggested), the cumulative energy distribution function will have a
ilar form to Eq. (3.9) with only a small difference in the constant coefficient. This would not
ve any significant effect on the probability density function PE (E) in Eq. (3.12). Numerically,
is typically a large number on the order of at least 1010 . As a result, the numerical difference
used by the integral upper bound is negligible.
A discussion has been added at the end of Sec. 3(a) (on page 8).
mment 3: “(3) The double-chain experiment shows that the distribution is still power-law
h approximately the same exponent if cross-interactions are considered. Is there any result on
quantitative change in the energy values? I mean, changing the fraction of cross-links, the
ergy value (prior to the form of its distribution) is affected. How does the density of cross links
ect the mean energy value? Is the change always negligible with respect to the change obtained
reasing the chain length by one?
sponse: Our numerical calculation indicates that the fraction of cross links does not dramat-
lly affects the magnitude of the energy, and the change is indeed negligible compared with the
ange in the energy as the chain length is increased by one unit. This point has been clarified
the revised paper (in Sec. 3(b) on page 10):
• the change in the magnitude of the energy due to small variations in the parameter value is
insignificant as compared with that caused by a change in the length of the LCC.
mment 4: “(4) In section ”Control energy reduction scheme”, the Authors state that, on
eral real networks, even when unlimited energy is supplied, the number of driver nodes predicted
the maximum matching algorithm is not sufficient to control the dynamics because some nodes
never converge to their states. This is a very important result, that should be discussed in
re detail in the paper. Was this phenomenon observed before on such networks? Does it depend
some structural property of the networks under study or of the linear dynamics considered?
sponse: To the best of our knowledge, this phenomenon has not been observed for any
deled networks: it only occurs in empirical (real-world) networks. It may be caused by some
pical structural properties. For example, for some networks, the uncontrollable nodes form self-
ps but without any incoming links. For some other networks with an unusually high average
gree, an ill-conditioned Gramian matrix can arise, prohibiting the system from converging to
target state. However, such uncontrollable cases (even with infinite supply of energy) are not
pected to be generic.
A discussion reflecting the above has been added at the end of Sec. 1(d) (on page 6).
feree 2
e referee recommended publication. There are no specific comments.
Society Open
