A networked voting rule for democratic representation
Alexis R. Hernández, Carlos Gracia-Lázaro, Edgardo Brigatti and Yamir Moreno
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172265.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172265
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 31 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172265.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Alberto Antonioni)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I enjoy reading the manuscript by Hernández et al. whose main contribution is the introduction
of a new voting system rule for selecting citizens' representatives in a committee. The rule is
based on a decentralized approach where electors can select their preferred candidate among
their neighbors on a network topology. However, the preference, i.e the vote, can be transferred
by its recipient until a cycle in the network of preferred candidates is formed. Since self-selection
is not allowed, it is always possible to identify a list of candidates. The committee is then formed
filtering selected candidates according to a threshold that regulates the number of vacant places.
The authors perform extensive computer simulations to test the novel voting system. The
methodology is well-described and the entire text reads fluently. The results and their discussion
are robust and satisfactory in showing the impact of the proposed voting system, also comparing
it with other voting protocols. However, the literature review can be improved, since very few
works are cited and just one of them really relates to the current one, i.e. [11]. I suggest the
authors to try to incorporate more literature to let the reader have a clearer view on the state of
the art.
Many follow-up works can come from this study investigating different aspects of the present
model, such as the use of other selection mechanisms for the preferred candidate not necessarily
based on common opinions on issues, or using different distributions of answers. Overall, if the
authors can reinforce the literature review on the topic and address the comments below, I can
support this work for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Additional comments:
- Eq. 1, there is no need for the square in the denominator. It must be specified that delta is the
kronecker's, otherwise it may be considered as a parameter.
- A better explanation of the definition of the fundamental measure R is suggested. It would be
beneficial for the reader to have the explanation of extreme cases of R, such as 0.5 and 1, with
their interpretations. Same holds for the normalized committee size, which may be defined using
another unique letter.
- Figs. 3-4 results can be merged into two single figures. Perhaps using right-most figures as
insets of left-most ones.
- Results of Fig.7 are very interesting and they would be even stronger showing them using a
couple of different model parameters, especially varying N_i. Legend within Fig. 7 is missing.
Also, other voting systems should be precisely described.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172265)
22-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Hernández
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172265 entitled
"A networked voting rule for democratic representation" has been accepted for publication in
3
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172265
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
4
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-Jan-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
5
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Matjaz Perc (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Matjaz Perc):
My own reading and understating of the manuscript concurs fully with the generally positive
assessment of the referee. The manuscript is comprehensive, clear, and it features results that will
surely be of interest to the readership of Royal Society Open Science. In terms of further
improvements, I would reiterate the referee's recommendation to improve on the background
literature in the introduction. The suggested additional analysis also seems worth doing,
although it probably won't lead to significantly deeper insights into the studied model.
Overall, I am happy to recommend the manuscript for publication following a minor revision to
polish out the few remaining shortcomings, and I congratulate the authors to a fine paper.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I enjoy reading the manuscript by Hernández et al. whose main contribution is the introduction
of a new voting system rule for selecting citizens' representatives in a committee. The rule is
based on a decentralized approach where electors can select their preferred candidate among
their neighbors on a network topology. However, the preference, i.e the vote, can be transferred
by its recipient until a cycle in the network of preferred candidates is formed. Since self-selection
is not allowed, it is always possible to identify a list of candidates. The committee is then formed
filtering selected candidates according to a threshold that regulates the number of vacant places.
The authors perform extensive computer simulations to test the novel voting system. The
6
methodology is well-described and the entire text reads fluently. The results and their discussion
are robust and satisfactory in showing the impact of the proposed voting system, also comparing
it with other voting protocols. However, the literature review can be improved, since very few
works are cited and just one of them really relates to the current one, i.e. [11]. I suggest the
authors to try to incorporate more literature to let the reader have a clearer view on the state of
the art.
Many follow-up works can come from this study investigating different aspects of the present
model, such as the use of other selection mechanisms for the preferred candidate not necessarily
based on common opinions on issues, or using different distributions of answers. Overall, if the
authors can reinforce the literature review on the topic and address the comments below, I can
support this work for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Additional comments:
- Eq. 1, there is no need for the square in the denominator. It must be specified that delta is the
kronecker's, otherwise it may be considered as a parameter.
- A better explanation of the definition of the fundamental measure R is suggested. It would be
beneficial for the reader to have the explanation of extreme cases of R, such as 0.5 and 1, with
their interpretations. Same holds for the normalized committee size, which may be defined using
another unique letter.
- Figs. 3-4 results can be merged into two single figures. Perhaps using right-most figures as
insets of left-most ones.
- Results of Fig.7 are very interesting and they would be even stronger showing them using a
couple of different model parameters, especially varying N_i. Legend within Fig. 7 is missing.
Also, other voting systems should be precisely described.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172265)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172265.R1)
31-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Hernández,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A networked voting rule for
democratic representation" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
7
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Answer to Reviewer #1
We thank you very much the reviewer for his/her very positive assessment of
our manuscript and for the feedback provided. Please, find below a detailed
response to all comments received as well as the changes we have done to
implement your suggestions whenever needed.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I enjoy reading the manuscript by Hernández et al. whose main contribution
is the introduction of a new voting system rule for selecting citizens'
representatives in a committee. The rule is based on a decentralized
approach where electors can select their preferred candidate among their
neighbors on a network topology. However, the preference, i.e the vote, can
be transferred by its recipient until a cycle in the network of preferred
candidates is formed. Since self-selection is not allowed, it is always possible
to identify a list of candidates. The committee is then formed filtering
selected candidates according to a threshold that regulates the number of
vacant places.
The authors perform extensive computer simulations to test the novel voting
system. The methodology is well-described and the entire text reads fluently.
The results and their discussion are robust and satisfactory in showing the
impact of the proposed voting system, also comparing it with other voting
protocols.
We thank the Reviewer for considering our results and discussion robust and
satisfactory. We agree that these results are interesting.
However, the literature review can be improved, since very few works are
cited and just one of them really relates to the current one, i.e. [11]. I
suggest the authors to try to incorporate more literature to let the reader
have a clearer view on the state of the art.
We agree with the reviewer that more references were needed. We have
added 16 references (ref. 17-32) together with a new paragraph in the
introduction section about the state of the art in this subject.
Many follow-up works can come from this study investigating different
aspects of the present model, such as the use of other selection mechanisms
for the preferred candidate not necessarily based on common opinions on
issues, or using different distributions of answers. Overall, if the authors can
reinforce the literature review on the topic and address the comments below,
I can support this work for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Additional comments:
- Eq. 1, there is no need for the square in the denominator. It must be
specified that delta is the kronecker's, otherwise it may be considered as a
parameter.
We thank the Reviewer for this suggestion. He/she is indeed correct in that
we did not specify that $\delta$ refers to the Kronecker’s delta. We have
changed the text accordingly by adding an explanation for the Kronecker’s
delta in Eq. 1. Regarding the denominator of Eq. 1, the summand is squared
so that the sum is made on the traits in which both agents have an opinion.
Otherwise, the traits with a different opinion (negative product) would be
subtracted from those in which they match (positive product).
- A better explanation of the definition of the fundamental measure R is
suggested. It would be beneficial for the reader to have the explanation of
extreme cases of R, such as 0.5 and 1, with their interpretations. Same holds
for the normalized committee size, which may be defined using another
unique letter.
We thank the Reviewer for this suggestion. We have improved the definition
of R and added clarifying interpretations for extreme cases (R=0.5, 1). We
have also improved the explanation of the normalized committee size.
- Figs. 3-4 results can be merged into two single figures. Perhaps using right-
most figures as insets of left-most ones.
Thanks for your suggestion. However, we have tried to join the figures by
using insets but the result was not satisfactory. We therefore think that the
readers will find the current presentation clear enough.
- Results of Fig.7 are very interesting and they would be even stronger
showing them using a couple of different model parameters, especially
varying N_i. Legend within Fig. 7 is missing. Also, other voting systems
should be precisely described.
The Reviewer makes a very useful observation here. We have performed new
simulations and added a new panel to Fig. 7 corresponding to a larger
number of issues (N_i=160).
We have also referred the reader to the main text for a detailed description of
the voting systems.
List of Changes (summary):
<U+F0B7> We have added 16 references (17-32) together with a new paragraph
about the state of the art in the introduction.
<U+F0B7> We have added an explanation for the Kronecker’s delta in Eq. 1.
<U+F0B7> We have improved the definition of R and added clarifying
interpretations for extreme cases (R=0.5, 1). We have also improved
the explanation of the normalized committee size.
<U+F0B7> We have added a new panel to Figure 7 for a larger number of issues
(N_i=160).
Society Open
