Using simulation to evaluate wildlife survey designs: polar
bears and seals in the Chukchi Sea
Paul B. Conn, Erin E. Moreland, Eric V. Regehr, Erin L. Richmond, Michael F. Cameron
and Peter L. Boveng
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150561.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150561
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 October 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150561.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Karyn Rode)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Note that I was asked to provide a review from the perspective of someone knowledgeable in the
ecology of the focal species of this study in this particular region. I am not qualified, and therefore
have not commented, to evaluate the statistical approach to the simulations.
Generally the paper is well-written and is an important contribution to the literature. However, it
is highly focused on the specific question of evaluating aerial survey based abundance estimates
of several Arctic marine mammals in the Chukchi Sea. There are several, more broad
applications of this study that I thought were lacking. As stated at the end of the conclusions, this
simulation can serve as a template for evaluating surveys in other regions. That gives the study
much broader purpose and could be better highlighted in the introduction. There is very little
comparison of the results of the simulation with other available survey data. For example, how
do the CVs of this study compare to those from aerial surveys that have been conducted
elsewhere (e.g., polar bears in the Barents Sea)? Are there any unique aspects of this simulation
that would limit its utility in other areas? What information does a researcher need to be able to
similarly use this simulation for species in their study area? Lastly, I don't think there is enough
emphasis on how important these simulation studies are in planning such expensive and
logistically challenging surveys. I didn’t note any word restrictions that would prevent further
background and justification for the study as well as putting the results in a broader context of
other surveys that have been conducted. Otherwise, I only had one question about differences in
detectability of polar bears and seals and impacts on simulation assumptions.
A few specific comments:
Page 3, Line 30 or 31: item (iii) should be “estimating” to be parallel to the other steps listed.
Pg 4, lines 46-48: At this point I don’t recall seeing any mention of the seasonal timing of the
surveys. I presume that would impact the estimated number of each species in the study area?
Pg. 6, Line 11-12; Thermal detection of polar bears should be the same or better than seals, but is
this value, p, affected by a potentially lower ability to confirm polar bear detections using SLR
photographs (i.e. you might pickup that something occurred as a result of a thermal image, but
perhaps detection would be lower for polar bears than seals b/c they would be harder to confirm
via photos b/c of their matching color to the ice?) It seems that the color of polar bears would be
one of the primary differences between the potential that detectability would be the same for
polar bears and seals.
Fig. 3. 4th line in figure should be “a thermal” rather than “an thermal”
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Andrew Derocher)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an exceptionally well written manuscript and I have very few comments. The study is
well presented but there would be merit to clarifying what you mean by "instrument-based
survey" very early on. I was challenged to know if you were using satellites or perhaps drones.
This is a minor concern but I had to look through the manuscript to gain this insight. Once I
understood that these were aircraft based instruments, I could follow the thread more fully.
I had some difficulty understanding some of the methods being used (e.g., Gibbs sampling
procedure, MCMC diagnostics, Gelman-Rubin diagnostics, Metropolis-Hastings updates). There
would be merit in providing a very brief statement on what each of these do. These may be
familiar to those doing this type of modelling but for a more general readership, there is merit in
presenting a bit of additional information.
The thermal imaging aspect is an interesting approach but there is little discussion on the errors
of such methods. Do recently hauled-out seals provide a reliable signature? Do polar bears
provide a signal? Some insights on error rates for the thermal detection would be useful. I could
not find what the "x" and "o" were in Figure 3. A - please clarify.
Figure 4 - track lines for the green on grey for C1-C4 was difficult to discern.
For Table 1, it would be useful to clarify the A1, A2, B1, etc. so that it stands alone.
There are numerous errors in the literatures cited. It appears that capitalization for place names
(e.g., barents sea) and italics for binomial names were lost.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150561)
30-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Conn,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Designing instrumental aerial surveys for estimating polar
bear and seal abundance in the eastern Chukchi Sea") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 23-Dec-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
4
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150561
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150561)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Point-by-point responses to reviewer comments (RSOS-150561)
The authors’ comments are interspersed below in red.
Reviewer: 1
Generally the paper is well-written and is an important contribution to the literature. However, it is
highly focused on the specific question of evaluating aerial survey based abundance estimates of
several Arctic marine mammals in the Chukchi Sea. There are several, more broad applications
of this study that I thought were lacking. As stated at the end of the conclusions, this simulation
can serve as a template for evaluating surveys in other regions. That gives the study much
broader purpose and could be better highlighted in the introduction.
We have considerably restructured our manuscript following this well founded suggestion to
generalize our presentation. We have (i) changed the title to reflect the general approach of
using simulation to evaluate alternative survey designs, (ii) restructured the abstract and
introduction so that we talk about evaluating survey designs at the outset, before going into
specifics of polar bear and seals in the Chukchi, and (iii) modified the discussion to emphasize
this broader purpose.
There is very little comparison of the results of the simulation with other available survey data.
For example, how do the CVs of this study compare to those from aerial surveys that have been
conducted elsewhere (e.g., polar bears in the Barents Sea)?
We now include two paragraphs in the Results/Discussion section that examine the CVs achieved
in other studies and highlight why or why not our results might differ. It is a bit speculative in that
it is sometimes hard to isolate why CVs are different because multiple factors vary (different
animal densities, different technology, different methodology, etc.), but we think this discussion is
useful. Thanks for the suggestion.
Are there any unique aspects of this simulation that would limit its utility in other areas? What
information does a researcher need to be able to similarly use this simulation for species in their
study area?
We don’t think that there are unique aspects that would limit the utility of simulation. However, as
now noted in the introduction, there are easier formulas which can be used when one wishes to
stick with a traditional (e.g. simple random sampling) estimator. In the second-to-last paragraph
of the Conclusion, we now discuss basic information one need to apply our approach in general.
Lastly, I don't think there is enough emphasis on how important these simulation studies are in
planning such expensive and logistically challenging surveys.
Our greatly restructured manuscript now makes this a central topic. In addition to the added
material in the abstract and introduction, the last two paragraphs of the Conclusions section
emphasize that our approach can be used as a template for others conducting their own
analyses.
A few specific comments:
Page 3, Line 30 or 31: item (iii) should be “estimating” to be parallel to the other steps listed.
Changed
Pg 4, lines 46-48: At this point I don’t recall seeing any mention of the seasonal timing of the
surveys. I presume that would impact the estimated number of each species in the study area?
We now indicate (in the Study Area subsection) that the proposed study would be conducted in
April and May when the highest proportions of seals are hauled out (and before an influx of
Bering Sea seals arrive).
Pg. 6, Line 11-12; Thermal detection of polar bears should be the same or better than seals, but
is this value, p, affected by a potentially lower ability to confirm polar bear detections using SLR
photographs (i.e. you might pickup that something occurred as a result of a thermal image, but
perhaps detection would be lower for polar bears than seals b/c they would be harder to confirm
via photos b/c of their matching color to the ice?) It seems that the color of polar bears would be
one of the primary differences between the potential that detectability would be the same for polar
bears and seals.
We have assumed here that confirmation of species in SLR photographs will be 100% (i.e., if
there is a thermal hot spot, we will be able to tell if it is an animal or an anomaly 100% of the
time). This seems to be a reasonable assumption with seals, and the resolution of the SLR
images (2cm/pixel) is such that it seems unlikely that we would miss a bear if we knew where in
the photograph to look. However, we do plan to do some experimental fly overs in upcoming
surveys (e.g. for bears detected visually). The detection probability estimated from that
experiment will effectively combine the two sources of error (i.e. detected bears must both be
detected by the IR and detected in the SLR photographs).
Fig. 3. 4th line in figure should be “a thermal” rather than “an thermal”
Changed
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an exceptionally well written manuscript and I have very few comments. The study is well
presented but there would be merit to clarifying what you mean by "instrument-based survey"
very early on. I was challenged to know if you were using satellites or perhaps drones. This is a
minor concern but I had to look through the manuscript to gain this insight. Once I understood
that these were aircraft based instruments, I could follow the thread more fully.
We now briefly define “instrument-based” surveys in the abstract, and more fully define what we
mean at first reference in the introduction to indicate that “instrument-based” surveys are
conducted with conventional fixed-wing aircraft.
I had some difficulty understanding some of the methods being used (e.g., Gibbs sampling
procedure, MCMC diagnostics, Gelman-Rubin diagnostics, Metropolis-Hastings updates). There
would be merit in providing a very brief statement on what each of these do. These may be
familiar to those doing this type of modelling but for a more general readership, there is merit in
presenting a bit of additional information.
This is a good point given our likely readership in this journal. Regarding Gibbs sampling, we
have added additional explanation:
“Conducting a Bayesian analysis requires a method for summarizing the posterior distribution of
model parameters, where the posterior distribution is proportional to the prior distribution times
the likelihood. This is difficult to do directly, so practitioners have developed simulation-based
approaches such as Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) to sample the posterior. Here we used a
variant of MCMC, namely Metropolis-within-Gibbs sampling (Gelman 2004) to summarize the
posterior by cyclically drawing form each parameter's so-called full conditional distribution. In
particular, we used the same Metropolis-within-Gibbs sampling procedure as specified by Conn et
al. (2014) (omitting updates for true species, species misclassification parameters, and individual
covariate distributions). “
Regarding Gelman-Rubin diagnostics, we now state “In particular, these diagnostics helped us to
ensure that MCMC chains had reached their stationary distribution, and on sample sizes needed
to ensure reasonable inference.”
We have replaced “Metropolis-Hastings updates” with “MCMC updates” as these are relatively
equivalent and “MCMC” was previously defined.
The thermal imaging aspect is an interesting approach but there is little discussion on the errors
of such methods. Do recently hauled-out seals provide a reliable signature? Do polar bears
provide a signal? Some insights on error rates for the thermal detection would be useful.
We have introduced some additional text into the manuscript to address detection of animals via
thermal imaging. In section 2.2, we note that a previous double sampling experiment suggested
that the overall detection probability of seals on ice by our thermal imaging system was ~0.94.
This implicitly includes all sources of nondetections. We also note that “nondetections were due
mainly to human error, though seals recently emerged from water were also missed due to
reduced thermal radiation.” For polar bears, less data are available, but we now cite previous and
current research indicating that LWIR microbolometers have adequate sensitivity to pick up polar
bears. We also note in the Conclusions section that experimentally measuring detection rates of
our thermal system on polar bears should be a focus of future research.
I could not find what the "x" and "o" were in Figure 3. A - please clarify.
We now indicate that “. . . such prospective “hot spots” are denoted with a green “o” in (A); pixel
temperature peaks that did not meet this criterion are labeled with an “x.”” (note there is
additional context when reading the figure caption in its entirety)
Figure 4 - track lines for the green on grey for C1-C4 was difficult to discern.
Good point. We have changed these to cyan, which stands out quite a bit better.
For Table 1, it would be useful to clarify the A1, A2, B1, etc. so that it stands alone.
We now explicitly define the flight naming conventions in the Table 1 heading.
There are numerous errors in the literatures cited. It appears that capitalization for place names
(e.g., barents sea) and italics for binomial names were lost.
There are several issues involving the typesetting program we used to compile the manuscript
that we had to iron out…it’s a bit embarrassing we didn’t catch this on initial submission!
Society Open
