Quantifying the relative effects of environmental and direct
transmission of norovirus
S. Towers, J. Chen, C. Cruz, J. Melendez, J. Rodriguez, A. Salinas, F. Yu and Y. Kang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 170602.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170602
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170602.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Benjamin Lopman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper presents a model of norovirus transmission among passengers and crew on cruise
ships. The problem being addressed is important and the model structure seems generally
appropriate, but I have a number concerns regarding (i) identifiability of model parameters (ii)
the thin presentation of results (iii) heavy reliance on certain assumptions (iv) lack of
acknowledgements of these limitations and (v) the rather strong conclusions are given.
Specific comments:
Intro
- I don’t think that the data clearly supports an increasing trend in norovirus outbreaks on cruise
liners in recent years
Methods
- Makes sense to ignore births, but the influx of new passengers for a new sailing can be thought
of as births. (Minor point)
- Its assumed that everyone is susceptible, but that is unlikely to be a good approximation, since
most people on a cruise ship have been exposed to norovirus and will have some immunity.
How does this affrect the Ro and would prior immunity affect dynamics and conclusions?
Results
- It’s not clear what the f_confirmed parameters represent form the table
- The assumption of ~1.1 days infectious period seems likely to be on the very low end. How
sensitive are the results to this assumption?
- In general – the results section is very short and lacks some key findings. For example, what is
Ro and how does it differ by crew/passengers?
- Much of section 3.2. Evaluation of potential control measures presents methods rather than
results.
Discussion
- Many new findings are presented for the first time in the discussion section (e.g. the Ro)
- The observation that only around 8% and 5% comes totally out of the blue. How’s this
observation made? Presumably its highly sensitive to the assumption about % asymptomatic.
o This is problematic in a number of ways: What data were the models fit to, if not reported
cases?
o Was it assumed that asymptomatic infected have the same transmissibility as those
symptomatic? That seems v unlikely given the importance of symptoms in transmission.
- The paragraph beginning “Our modelling analysis finds that only around 8% and 5%” is largely
repetitive with the one beginning “The high asymptomatic fraction, and low rates of health-
seeking behavior..”
- The poor impact of quarantine seems to me to be just a function of the assumption that
asymptomatic infection is common and just as transmissible as symptomatic. Therefore,
quantifying symptomatic does little.
- Moreover – there is little acknowledgement of the limitations of this approach. For example,
surely there is a considerable identifiability problem --- with only a time series of cases among
crew and passengers, attributing transmission to direct or environmental transmission will be
hard to identify and highly dependent on assumptions of contact patterns and transmissibility of
different groups.
- On top of this, the results of the intervention analyses will be highly dependent on these
assumptions and model fits. The lack of a sensitivity analysis is concerning, esp. considering the
3
strong conclusions, e.g, “quarantine of symptomatic passengers aboard a cruise ship is likely
ineffectual at outbreak control.”
Ben Lopman
Emory University
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170602)
27-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Towers,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Quantifying the relative effects of environmental and direct
transmission of norovirus") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 20-Oct-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
4
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170602
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor's comments :
A number of concerns have been raised as detailed in the reviewers' comments requiring major
revision.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper presents a model of norovirus transmission among passengers and crew on cruise
ships. The problem being addressed is important and the model structure seems generally
appropriate, but I have a number concerns regarding (i) identifiability of model parameters (ii)
the thin presentation of results (iii) heavy reliance on certain assumptions (iv) lack of
acknowledgements of these limitations and (v) the rather strong conclusions are given.
Specific comments:
Intro
- I don’t think that the data clearly supports an increasing trend in norovirus outbreaks on cruise
liners in recent years
Methods
- Makes sense to ignore births, but the influx of new passengers for a new sailing can be thought
of as births. (Minor point)
- Its assumed that everyone is susceptible, but that is unlikely to be a good approximation, since
most people on a cruise ship have been exposed to norovirus and will have some immunity.
How does this affrect the Ro and would prior immunity affect dynamics and conclusions?
Results
- It’s not clear what the f_confirmed parameters represent form the table
- The assumption of ~1.1 days infectious period seems likely to be on the very low end. How
sensitive are the results to this assumption?
- In general – the results section is very short and lacks some key findings. For example, what is
Ro and how does it differ by crew/passengers?
- Much of section 3.2. Evaluation of potential control measures presents methods rather than
results.
Discussion
- Many new findings are presented for the first time in the discussion section (e.g. the Ro)
- The observation that only around 8% and 5% comes totally out of the blue. How’s this
observation made? Presumably its highly sensitive to the assumption about % asymptomatic.
o This is problematic in a number of ways: What data were the models fit to, if not reported
cases?
o Was it assumed that asymptomatic infected have the same transmissibility as those
symptomatic? That seems v unlikely given the importance of symptoms in transmission.
- The paragraph beginning “Our modelling analysis finds that only around 8% and 5%” is largely
repetitive with the one beginning “The high asymptomatic fraction, and low rates of health-
seeking behavior..”
- The poor impact of quarantine seems to me to be just a function of the assumption that
asymptomatic infection is common and just as transmissible as symptomatic. Therefore,
quantifying symptomatic does little.
6
- Moreover – there is little acknowledgement of the limitations of this approach. For example,
surely there is a considerable identifiability problem --- with only a time series of cases among
crew and passengers, attributing transmission to direct or environmental transmission will be
hard to identify and highly dependent on assumptions of contact patterns and transmissibility of
different groups.
- On top of this, the results of the intervention analyses will be highly dependent on these
assumptions and model fits. The lack of a sensitivity analysis is concerning, esp. considering the
strong conclusions, e.g, “quarantine of symptomatic passengers aboard a cruise ship is likely
ineffectual at outbreak control.”
Ben Lopman
Emory University
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170602)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-170602.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Benjamin Lopman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have substantially revised the article and comprehensively responded to my
concerns.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170602.R1)
06-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Towers,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Quantifying the relative effects of
environmental and direct transmission of norovirus" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Paul Lehner (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have substantially revised the article and comprehensively responded to my
concerns.
pendix A
plies to reviewer comments on Quantifying the relative effects of
vironmental and direct transmission of norovirus
would like to begin by thanking the reviewer for their in-depth comments on our
nuscript. We believe the manuscript has been greatly improved by the input of the
iewer, and we would like to particularly thank the reviewer for the comments related to
sitivity analyses, the potential for pre-immunity, and the potential for asymptomatic
nsmission, since these were all indeed things that needed to be addressed in our model, and
he paper.
detailed replies to the reviewer are below. General comments are in red. In green are the
cription of changes to the manuscript.
mments to the Author(s)
s paper presents a model of norovirus transmission among passengers and crew on cruise
ps. The problem being addressed is important and the model structure seems generally
ropriate, but I have a number concerns regarding
(i) identifiability of model parameters
We appreciate the comments the reviewer made on our model. As we discuss in
detail below, based on the reviewer’s comments we have expanded our model to
include the potential for asymptomatic transmission, and pre-immunity due to prior
exposure.
(ii) the thin presentation of results
As we discuss in detail below, the results section has been significantly expanded to
present the results in greater detail
(iii) heavy reliance on certain assumptions
As discussed in detail below, we have made our model more general, with inclusion
of an asymptomatic class and the potential for prior-immunity due to prior
exposure, and added discussion to the paper of the limitations of the assumptions of
the model.
(iv) lack of acknowledgements of these limitations and
As discussed in detail below, we have added discussion of the limitations of the
modelling approach we use.
(v) the rather strong conclusions are given.
As discussed in detail below, we have softened the wording with respect to the
conclusions, since the reviewer is correct that the conclusions at least in part depend
on some assumptions of the model.
Specific comments:
o
on’t think that the data clearly supports an increasing trend in norovirus outbreaks on
ise liners in recent years
nk you for pointing this out. Upon reflection, we believe it is true that we have over-stated
. We have amended the text accordingly, starting at line 54 in the original paper, and line
n the revised paper.
thods
akes sense to ignore births, but the influx of new passengers for a new sailing can be
ught of as births. (Minor point)
nk you for pointing this out. We have added text to clarify this at line 159 in the original
er, line 173 in the revised paper.
assumed that everyone is susceptible, but that is unlikely to be a good approximation,
ce most people on a cruise ship have been exposed to norovirus and will have some
munity. How does this affect the Ro and would prior immunity affect dynamics and
clusions?
s is an excellent point. In the updated analysis, we now fit for the pre-immune fraction in
population, and find that it is approximately 88%. This is in agreement with various
ovirus seroprevalence studies that have found that a high fraction of older children and
lts have been exposed to norovirus in the past (the studies we found in the literature
mate in the range of 80% to 90%). We have modified the text in the paper to reflect this
ition to the analysis with the first description of the model in section 2.2 starting at line 179,
throughout the rest of the revised paper.
ults
s not clear what the f_confirmed parameters represent form the table
apologise… we had neglected to include the description of these quantities in the text. Not
ymptomatic cases typically are identified in a cruise due to some passengers or crew not
king health treatment when ill. To estimate the fraction of cases that seek treatment, we
de the observed incidence in the two groups by the model prediction for the number of
es. We have added text to the paper to describe this, after line 203 in the original paper,
line 239 in the revised paper.
e assumption of ~1.1 days infectious period seems likely to be on the very low end. How
sitive are the results to this assumption?
expression for the reproduction number in Equation 3 in the revised paper is directly
portional to the infectious period, thus we cannot simultaneously fit for both R0 and the
ctious period. However, we have added text to line 396 in the second paragraph of the
cussion section of the revised paper to point this out, and to point out that if a different
ue of 1/gamma is used, the results for our reproduction number should be scaled
ordingly to obtain the new estimates.
h respect to the incubation period that we assume, there at least two studies in the
rature that have estimated the incubation period, 1/kappa, to be approximately two days.
have added to the text the description of an additional study in our analysis where we fit
the incubation period with no prior-belief constraint on the likelihood, beginning at line 300
he Methods section, and beginning at line 343 in the Results section. We find that the
mates of R0_direct and R0_env do not change significantly (but have inflated uncertainties),
the estimates of 1/kappa are in agreement with the results from observational studies.
wever, two days is at the upper end of the 95% CI of our estimate.
general – the results section is very short and lacks some key findings. For example, what
o and how does it differ by crew/passengers?
have substantially expanded the Results section, including expanding the first paragraph in
tion 3.1, beginning at line 329, to explicitly state the reproduction number results in the text,
her than just in the table.
have also added a paragraph to the Results section, beginning at line 335, describing the
rlaid lines which have been newly added to Figure 1, which involve the best fit estimates of
models with just environmental transmission, just direct transmission, and also the full
del with both environmental and direct transmission.
have also added a paragraph to the Results section, beginning at line 339, describing the
w aspect of the model that involves fitting for the pre-immune fraction in the population,
another paragraph describing the study where we fit for the incubation period
onstrained by prior belief constraints in the likelihood fit.
have also added a last paragraph of Results section 3.1, beginning at line 349, to explicitly
te the estimated fraction of symptomatic cases.
R0 for the crew and passengers, we assume that the reviewer is referring to the contact
es between them (“R0”, in terms of the mathematical model, refers to the entire
ulation). The estimates for the contact rates are given in Table 2, but we have added
rding to the text at line 332 in the Discussion section of the revised paper to explicitly point
that the contact rate of passenger-to-passenger is much higher than that of crew-to-crew.
uch of section 3.2. Evaluation of potential control measures presents methods rather than
ults.
nks for pointing this out. We have moved much of the description to the Methods section,
rting at line 255 in section 2.2 of the revised manuscript.
cussion
any new findings are presented for the first time in the discussion section (e.g. the Ro)
described in detail in our replies above, we have expanded the Results section to have the
t presentation of results occur there. Thanks for pointing this out.
e observation that only around 8% and 5% comes totally out of the blue. How’s this
ervation made? Presumably its highly sensitive to the assumption about %
mptomatic.
nk you for mentioning this, because it is indeed remiss of us to have not included the
ential for asymptomatic transmission in our model. We have updated our model to include
asymptomatic class, with the possibility that the asymptomatic individuals can also transmit
ction, but with a “discount-on-transmission” factor, compared to symptomatic individuals,
ma, with 0<U+F0A3>sigma<U+F0A3>1. It currently is unknown what sigma is. We thus repeat the analysis,
mating the reproduction numbers with this new model. As described in detail in our replies
ve, we have added extensive text to the paper in sections 2.2 and 3 to describe this
anded revised model, and the results.
his is problematic in a number of ways: What data were the models fit to, if not reported
es?
model predictions for symptomatic cases are now fit to the data. We have added text to
paper to mention this, at the beginning of section 2.3, starting at line 272 in the revised
nuscript.
as it assumed that asymptomatic infected have the same transmissibility as those
ptomatic? That seems v unlikely given the importance of symptoms in transmission.
described above, we have now specifically included an asymptomatic infectious class in the
del, with the potential for that class to be able to transmit infection, but with a discount-on-
nsmission, sigma, relative to symptomatic individuals, with sigma between 0 and 1.
e paragraph beginning “Our modelling analysis finds that only around 8% and 5%” is
ely repetitive with the one beginning “The high asymptomatic fraction, and low rates of
lth-seeking behavior..”
described in detail above, the Methods, Results, and Discussion sections have been modified
eflect the discussion of our new model that specifically includes asymptomatic transmission.
articular starting at lines 179 and 317 in the Methods section, 339 in the Results section,
435 in the Discussion section in the revised manuscript.
e poor impact of quarantine seems to me to be just a function of the assumption that
mptomatic infection is common and just as transmissible as symptomatic. Therefore,
ntifying symptomatic does little.
h our updated model that includes asymptomatic transmission, we still find that complete
break control is unlikely to be achieved with just isolation of symptomatic cases. Part of the
blem is indeed the relatively high asymptomatic fraction, as the reviewer points out.
lth-seeking behaviours also play a role… if people do not see medical care when
ptomatic, they can’t be isolated. We discuss these points in the Discussion section, in the
agraph beginning at line 435 in the revised manuscript.
hould also be noted that our model assumes that individuals are immediately isolated upon
oming symptomatic. Thus, our model essentially assumes a ‘’best case’’ scenario, that is
ikely to be achieved in real life. Thus, the results in the paper reflect an idealized situation,
real-life application of isolation is likely to be even less efficacious than what we estimate in
analysis. We have added wording to the paper to discuss this, in the paragraph beginning
ine 448 in the Discussion section of the revised manuscript.
oreover – there is little acknowledgement of the limitations of this approach. For
mple, surely there is a considerable identifiability problem --- with only a time series of
es among crew and passengers, attributing transmission to direct or environmental
nsmission will be hard to identify and highly dependent on assumptions of contact
terns and transmissibility of different groups.
umptions about the differing transmission routes affects the predicted temporal dynamics
n outbreak. For example, with environmental transmission only, we cannot get a good fit to
h time series of the passenger and crew incidence. And this is also the case if we assume
ct transmission only. We have added text and modified Figure 1 in the paper to illustrate
, where we additionally show the best-fit of the model with environmental transmission
ne, and the best-fit with direct transmission alone. Neither model provides as good a fit to
temporal dynamics in the two sub-populations as the model with both environmental and
ct transmission. We have added wording the Discussion section to reflect this at line 335 in
revised manuscript.
data from two consecutive cruises in the two sub-populations is actually remarkably helpful
etermination of the mix of transmission routes, because the temporal patterns in the rise in
dence of infection in the influx of fresh susceptible passengers at the beginning of the
ond cruise depend on how the pathogen is being transmitted. We have added wording to
Introduction of the paper to mention this point, starting at line 116 in the revised
nuscript.
wever, the reviewer has a good point that simply relying on the temporal patterns in
dence alone is not the same as specific contact tracing of each individual to try to determine
relative likelihood that they were infected by another individual (and whether that
ividual was crew or passenger) and the relative likelihood they were infected through
ironmental contamination. Even this approach, however, has many flaws since it would be
raordinarily difficult to account for asymptomatic transmission. There is also the possibility
t the homogeneous mixing assumptions made in the model may be somewhat violated in
ctice. We have added discussion of the potential drawbacks of our methodology to the
er, in the last paragraph of the Discussion section, starting at line 506 in the revised
nuscript.
n top of this, the results of the intervention analyses will be highly dependent on these
umptions and model fits. The lack of a sensitivity analysis is concerning, esp. considering
strong conclusions, e.g, “quarantine of symptomatic passengers aboard a cruise ship is
ly ineffectual at outbreak control.”
nk you for pointing this out. A sensitivity of the estimated efficacy of the intervention
asures to the uncertainties in the model parameters should indeed be assessed. We have
s performed this analysis, and now show the 95% CI on the estimates of the efficacy of
trol measures in Figure 3. We have added text to the paper to describe this analysis, in the
agraph beginning at line 265 in the Methods section, and in the first paragraph of section
, beginning at line 353.
have also softened wording in several places in the paper regarding the conclusions of our
dy (for example, in lines 26, 482, 490, 540, and 542)
Society Open
