Balance and coordination after viewing stereoscopic 3D
television
Jenny C. A. Read, Jennifer Simonotto, Iwo Bohr, Alan Godfrey, Brook Galna, Lynn
Rochester and Tom V. Smulders
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140522.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140522
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 December 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal before peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140522.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It's unclear to me what supplementary files are required. I have looked at the Supplementary files
supplied, but cannot open them all so I can neither confirm nor deny compliance.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In my opinion, this is an excellent study (as I would expect from this group).
The authors have the problem inherent in failing to find an effect, inasmuch as this could be
because there is no effect to find or because they have missed it.
In fact, they under-sell their results by concentrating on the issue of the power of their tests, when
the reality is that they have not seen any trends, never mind seen a trend which could have been
down to chance. They make a compelling argument for the sensitivity of their tests, and I find
their conclusions to be supported by their data.
I am only not recommending acceptance without revision because I wonder if all of the figures
are needed, and whether every one of them adds to the paper.
The other suggestion I have is that some readers may not have read the 2014 paper, and so a
couple of additional sentences about subjective responses might be welcome.
I'm a little puzzled about their reason for not excluding participants with amblyopia, or other
conditions which would restrict/prevent stereopsis, given the question asked. I understand that
the participants were all seen by an orthoptist, so this dichotomy should have been easy to
achieve. Of course, this group (if big enough) would have been, in some ways (although not all),
an excellent control group.
Is colour coding to be used in the publication, and if so are there any issues with the document?
If figure 1 is to remain (and I don't see any advantage in keeping both figure 1 and figure 2) the
legend could be improved - it is easier for me to free-fuse by relaxing my convergence, and
perhaps this is the case for some others.
Two trivial points: page 3 top line, if there is imprecision in accommodation, you cannot describe
it as a LOSS.
page 3 line 36: to remove any confusion rewrite this as one sentence not two, as:
"The C group watched the same movie in 2D, as a control and it was presented on the active....."
Page 4, line 37, reference 13 .... flimsy evidence :)
I look forward to seeing the study published.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Simon Watt)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I didn't see anywhere to access the raw data, if this is required.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper describes a large-scale (in vision-science terms) ‘trial’ investigating effects of viewing
stereoscopic 3-D television (S3D) on balance and coordination. The topic is timely, and should be
of general (indeed, societal) interest. I found the paper to be refreshingly clearly written with
regard to the objectives, methods and results. Moreover, the study itself is similarly
straightforward, with sensibly chosen measures, clear design, and thorough analyses. The paper
reports no effects of viewing S3D TV on balance and coordination, as measured.
On the whole I’m very supportive of publication, and the authors should be commended for
tackling such a large-scale study, across the general population. My only reservation relates to a
specific aspect of the generality of the conclusions that can be drawn from the (null) results. To be
clear, the authors do a good job of exploring the statistical factors (analysing effect sizes that were
detectable, and placing those in context etc.). They also note other important caveats, including
the time delay associated with their measurements, and the fact they studied a particular setting
(viewing distance is important). One factor that is missing, however, is that adverse effects of S3D
are likely to be content dependent. I’ll unpack this a bit, below.
There isn’t a specific theoretical account (in my mind at least) of why S3D might cause balance
and coordination problems. But there are some plausible possibilities, including altered vergence
and accommodation responses (and the coordination between them), and simulator sickness-like
effects induced by powerful cues to self-motion, in conjunction with conflicting vestibular signals.
Both of these would be expected to depend on the specific content, including the magnitude and
temporal structures of (i) the vergence-accommodation conflicts presented, and (ii) large-field
self-motion cues.
This study takes a different approach than, for example, work on vergence-accommodation
conflict and fatigue/discomfort, which has sought to establish whether, in principle, this
unnatural stimulation can be problematic, and then attempted to delineate the conditions under
which it is. Here, the approach is to select content that is considered typical or representative
(presumably – this assumption is implicit at present), and to determine whether such
representative content causes adverse effects. This isn’t a problem in itself, but I think this aspect
of the study should be made explicit, especially given the likely wide readership of this paper,
outside of scientific circles.
Moreover, it would be nice (though I recognise that it may not be easy) to discuss the extent to
which the content used is in fact representative. One issue that springs to mind is that, in
principle, many of the things that can make S3D hard to watch are fundamentally easier to
control in CGI films than in live action films, because the camera geometry, and 3D world, are
completely controlled, and the ‘film’ can readily be remade until problems appear to be
minimised. Said another way, one should be cautious of concluding, on the basis of watching a
4
carefully crafted Pixar movie, that watching live S3D football won’t have any negative
consequences.
None of this is by any means fatal. I just think the paper would benefit from acknowledging the
importance of content, and from discussing the logic (Toy story S3D is representative; Toy Story
S3D is fine; therefore S3D is fine) explicitly.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140522)
07-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Read,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Balance and coordination after viewing stereoscopic
3D television") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
5
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140522)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140522.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
6
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I am very happy to recommend publication of the paper as it is now.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, in supplementary material.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have clearly taken both sets of comments seriously, and have done a nice job of
amending the manuscript accordingly. I'm happy to recommend publication in its present form.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140522.R1)
8th June 2015
Dear Dr Read,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Balance and coordination after viewing
stereoscopic 3D television" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
reviews.
In my opinion, this is an excellent study (as I would expect from this group).
Thank you very much.
The authors have the problem inherent in failing to find an effect, inasmuch as this could be because
there is no effect to find or because they have missed it. In fact, they under-sell their results by
concentrating on the issue of the power of their tests, when the reality is that they have not seen any
trends, never mind seen a trend which could have been down to chance.
Thanks for pointing this out. We have added a sentence to this effect.
They make a compelling argument for the sensitivity of their tests, and I find their conclusions to be
supported by their data. I am only not recommending acceptance without revision because I wonder
if all of the figures are needed, and whether every one of them adds to the paper.
With the editor’s permission, we would prefer to keep them in. RS Open Science is an online-only
journal, and to our minds a key advantage of this medium over print is that space is not so pressing,
so authors can include additional details and information which might have previously been omitted.
The other suggestion I have is that some readers may not have read the 2014 paper, and so a couple
of additional sentences about subjective responses might be welcome.
We have added these.
I'm a little puzzled about their reason for not excluding participants with amblyopia, or other
conditions which would restrict/prevent stereopsis, given the question asked. I understand that the
participants were all seen by an orthoptist, so this dichotomy should have been easy to achieve. Of
course, this group (if big enough) would have been, in some ways (although not all), an excellent
control group.
This is an interesting suggestion. We take it the reviewer has in mind that people with conditions
that restrict stereopsis should be unaffected by 3D TV, so that these people would make a control
group, and should be excluded from the study group in case they “dilute” any effect of 3D. Although
this seems reasonable at first glance, in fact there is no evidence that people with poor stereoacuity
are less likely to be affected by 3D TV. In our 2014 paper (Read & Bohr 2014, Ergonomics), we looked
to see whether there was any relationship between various visual problems and likelihood of
reporting adverse effect. We could not find any relationship. For example, people with no or poor
stereoacuity, people with large interocular differences in visual acuity, people with phoria or tropia
all reported adverse effects at the same rate as people without these problems. Of course, one
problem is that we are looking at the intersection of two minority groups (has visual problem /
reports adverse effects) so numbers are small and thus power is low. In a different analysis of the
data from this study (Bohr & Read 2013, PLOS ONE), we found a surprising low association between
apparently relevant binocular vision problems such as large interocular acuity differences or tropia,
and stereoacuity. We found that only 29% of people with binocular vision problems (as assessed by
the orthoptist) had poor stereovision (on the Frisby test), and conversely only 62% of people with
with a large interocular acuity difference (amblyopia), we would be excluding several people with
measurable stereo vision, who could potentially be affected by 3D TV. Conversely, a substantial
fraction of the people with no amblyopia or other binocular vision problem would be stereoblind,
and so would still be “diluting” the effect of 3D.
Of course we could include or exclude people on the basis of stereoacuity directly, whether or not
this was linked to amblyopia or another definable pathology. But here again there is no evidence to
support such a step. As noted, in our earlier study, we found no relationship between stereoacuity
and self-reported adverse effects. Nor is this necessarily surprising. Even stereoblind people can be
sensitive to binocular stimuli, e.g. they can detect purely binocular motion cues (Wolfe & Held
(1980), Perception & Psychophysics, 28(2) 139), so could presumably be subject to the same cue-
conflict between binocular visual motion cues in 3D and the vestibular system.
In summary, we have no evidence base on which to analyse this subgroup differently, and any
division into subgroups would further reduce our power. We therefore chose not to exclude
participants on this basis.
Is colour coding to be used in the publication, and if so are there any issues with the document?
Colour coding is to be used in the publication. We are not aware of any issues with this. Even if the
document is printed out in grayscale, colour is never essential in the data figures; the distinct groups
are also labelled in text, and colour is used simply as a visual aid.
If figure 1 is to remain (and I don't see any advantage in keeping both figure 1 and figure 2) the
legend could be improved - it is easier for me to free-fuse by relaxing my convergence, and perhaps
this is the case for some others.
Given that space is not an issue in an online journal, we would prefer to keep both figures. Figure 1
clearly shows the structure of the three difficulty levels, whereas Figure 2 shows the task in use and
gives a better idea of scale.
We have reworked Figure 1 so that it now contains stereopairs for divergent as well as convergent
fusion,and reworded the legend accordingly.
Two trivial points: page 3 top line, if there is imprecision in accommodation, you cannot describe it as
a LOSS.
Thanks. We have changed it to “impairment”.
page 3 line 36: to remove any confusion rewrite this as one sentence not two, as:
"The C group watched the same movie in 2D, as a control and it was presented on the active....."
Done; thanks.
Page 4, line 37, reference 13 .... flimsy evidence :)
To be on the safe side, we have reworded this to both avoid the word “evidence”, and also credit
Helmholtz for the original suggestion.
We thank the reviewer for his or her help in improving it.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes a large-scale (in vision-science terms) ‘trial’ investigating effects of viewing
stereoscopic 3-D television (S3D) on balance and coordination. The topic is timely, and should be of
general (indeed, societal) interest. I found the paper to be refreshingly clearly written with regard to
the objectives, methods and results. Moreover, the study itself is similarly straightforward, with
sensibly chosen measures, clear design, and thorough analyses. The paper reports no effects of
viewing S3D TV on balance and coordination, as measured. On the whole I’m very supportive of
publication, and the authors should be commended for tackling such a large-scale study, across the
general population.
We thank the reviewer for these welcome comments.
My only reservation relates to a specific aspect of the generality of the conclusions that can be drawn
from the (null) results. To be clear, the authors do a good job of exploring the statistical factors
(analysing effect sizes that were detectable, and placing those in context etc.). They also note other
important caveats, including the time delay associated with their measurements, and the fact they
studied a particular setting (viewing distance is important). One factor that is missing, however, is
that adverse effects of S3D are likely to be content dependent. I’ll unpack this a bit, below.
There isn’t a specific theoretical account (in my mind at least) of why S3D might cause balance and
coordination problems. But there are some plausible possibilities, including altered vergence and
accommodation responses (and the coordination between them), and simulator sickness-like effects
induced by powerful cues to self-motion, in conjunction with conflicting vestibular signals. Both of
these would be expected to depend on the specific content, including the magnitude and temporal
structures of (i) the vergence-accommodation conflicts presented, and (ii) large-field self-motion cues.
Agreed. We have added a paragraph at the beginning of the Discussion on this.
This study takes a different approach than, for example, work on vergence-accommodation conflict
and fatigue/discomfort, which has sought to establish whether, in principle, this unnatural
stimulation can be problematic, and then attempted to delineate the conditions under which it is.
Here, the approach is to select content that is considered typical or representative (presumably – this
assumption is implicit at present), and to determine whether such representative content causes
explicit, especially given the likely wide readership of this paper, outside of scientific circles.
Moreover, it would be nice (though I recognise that it may not be easy) to discuss the extent to which
the content used is in fact representative. One issue that springs to mind is that, in principle, many of
the things that can make S3D hard to watch are fundamentally easier to control in CGI films than in
live action films, because the camera geometry, and 3D world, are completely controlled, and the
‘film’ can readily be remade until problems appear to be minimised. Said another way, one should be
cautious of concluding, on the basis of watching a carefully crafted Pixar movie, that watching live
S3D football won’t have any negative consequences.
None of this is by any means fatal. I just think the paper would benefit from acknowledging the
importance of content, and from discussing the logic (Toy story S3D is representative; Toy Story S3D
is fine; therefore S3D is fine) explicitly.
These are excellent points; thanks. We have added a second paragraph to the Discussion which we
hope addresses the referee’s points, and have also slightly modified the Media Summary and
Abstract.
Society Open
