Opsin transcripts of predatory diving beetles: a comparison
of surface and subterranean photic niches
Simon M. Tierney, Steven J.B. Cooper, Kathleen M. Saint, Terry Bertozzi, Josephine
Hyde, William F. Humphreys, Andrew D. Austin
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140386.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140386
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 02 December 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140386.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Markus Friedrich)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
See detailed review
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Tierney et al reports on an interesting study that compared the representation of opsin gene
transcripts in two subterranean diving beetle species and a surface relative for comparison by
deep transcriptome sequencing. The reviewer concurs with the authors that the genetic
consequences and causes of cave adaptation represent important yet still insufficiently studied
questions. The reviewer was also happy to see this approached with the newly available power of
transcriptome sequencing. However, analysis and discussion of the data still leave much to wish
for at this point.
Major points:
1. Little information is given regarding basic aspects of the visual system and ecology of the
species under study. How large is the eye of the surface species? Is there anything known
regarding the dispersal activity or possibilities of the two subterranean species. What is the
degree of cave adaptation in the latter two in terms of other troglomorphic features such as
pigmentation loss of appendage elongation? These framework data could impact the discussion
of the results.
2. Analysis and presentation of the ortholog searches is cumbersome and not state of the art.
Instead of the redundant candidate gene set, the authors should establish orthology by reciprocal
BLASTing (not explicitly done) and the gene tree analysis they performed.
3. It is not clear why the authors did not search for additional vision genes of complete
transcriptomes were generated. That would increase the sample sensitivity of their search for
evidence of vision preservation.
4. The detection of LW-opsin expression in one of the two subterranean species is of course most
significant. Instead of resorting to the ad hoc claim of this to represent evidence of other functions
which is not specifically supported by the data [i.e. why is it that the most sensitive opsin has
remained? why should only LW-opsins have other functions but not UV-opsins?], the authors
should compare expression levels between the cave species and the surface species. That could
tell something about the number or nature of cells which expression the conserved LW-opsin.
expression levels could be normalized in approximation based on amount of total RNA used to
generate the library as well as based on the read coverage of house keeping genes compared to
the opsin genes.
Minor points:
1.
“differential transcription”
this term is usually referred to differences in expression between cells/tissues in the same
organism
2.
“ extraretinal (but not blue) opsins”
The study captured orthologs of the conserved c-opsin subfamily in insects but use different
terms for this throughout the ms. While this does reflect an unfortunate pre-existing
heterogeneity of terms in the literature, the authors are advised to resort to single consistent
terms, maybe making reference to Porter et al 2012: Shedding new light on opsin evolution.
Porter ML, Blasic JR, Bok MJ, Cameron EG, Pringle T, Cronin TW, Robinson PR.
Proc Biol Sci. 2012 Jan 7;279(1726):3-14.
3
3.
“peak <U+03BB> sensitivity. “
wavelength?
4.
“Metrics for the de novo assemblies are summarised in Table S3. We recovered between 50.6
and 78.9
158 million paired-end reads for each of the five species. Assembled transcripts, ranged from
84,667 to 182,240
159 per species (contig N50 ranged from 565 and 1,067 bp) and total aligned reads ranged from 37
to 74.3
160 million reads. “
Are these transcriptome data publicly available?
5.
“ the majority of GenBank nucleotide matches (BLASTn derived) to best hit transcripts
204 (derived from BLASTx) were to other members of the G protein-coupled receptor family
(which includes
205 opsins) that were not related to phototransduction (Tables S1.3.3, S1.5.5.3). This suggests that
our
206 assemblies were of high quality and capable of discerning transcripts at high fidelity.”
Are the subterranean species and surface species characterized by similar representation of other
receptor transcripts?
A quantitative comparison of average raw sequence coverage would be an important point of
comparison
6.
“ Below, results from surface species are presented independently of subterranean species and
correspond to the conceptual workflow outlined in Figure S1 and results tabulated in Table S1, as
follows….”
having active and passive tense in the same sentence reads strange. this part reads more like a
methods section and needs to be rewritten for clarity
7.
“ The assembled contigs returned amino acid translated matches to
186 non-visual opsins of other (non-Candidate) insect taxa (Tables S1.1.1, S1.4.1), as well as more
stringent
187 nucleotide matches to these targets (Tables S1.1.3, S1.4.3).”
I think the presentation/discussion of nucleotide and aa matches is redundant. I recommend to
focus the ortholog search to conceptual protein sequences.
8.
“parapinopsin-like” reference?
4
just present/talk about reBLAST confirmed orthologs
9.
“with an additional three non-visual opsins (Figure 2, Table S2)”
also spell out in the text which ones
10.
“The dytiscid
230 longwavelength opsin clade was a sister group to bee and butterfly clades, however, a usual
outcome was
231 that the
T. castaneum copy was recovered as sister lineages to all other long-wavelength opsins. This
232 sequence was approximately one third shorter than most other long-wavelength copies,
which may account
233 for this apparent aberration.”
Use this one: rhodopsin 1/6-like [Tribolium castaneum]
NCBI Reference Sequence: NP_001155991.1
11.
“There was no evidence for
253 recombination in this alignment.”
I don’t it is necessary to mention in the result part. maybe in the methods part.
12.
“ We did not identify a blue opsin orthologue at all in dytiscids, but note that its loss has been
317 documented for the red flour beetle [42], and the only other publicly available sequence data
for a dytiscid
318 beetles’ opsins is from larvae of the sunburst diving beetle, which also lacks blue-sensitivity
[43,44].
319 Maintenance of blue sensitivity is likely to be dependent on the photic niche of the focal
species and
320 electroretinogram studies suggest day-active predatory lady beetles do possess blue-sensitive
(420 nm)
321 photopigments [45].”
what is the conclusion of this paragraph?
“Drosophila melanogaster possess an extra-retinal blue-light photopigment cryptochrome,
which
324 regulates circadian rhythms. However, beetles and bees studied thus far possess an
orthologue of
325 cryptochrome that is not photosensitive and most similar to vertebrate-like cryptochrome,
wherein it plays
326 no circadian role [46,47].”
5
Correct. But if you raise this issue in the discussion what would expected at least efforts of a
search for these genes in the transcriptomes that were generated.
14.
“ However, the subterranean beetles are proposed to have
339 colonised calcrete aquifers during the Plio-Pleistocene aridification of Australia [24,25], with a
major
340 radiation of these subterranean beetles of between 3-8 Mya”
It would be nice if the evidence for that could be given in compact form
15.
“Among insects there is evidence of functional visual-opsin expression in the larval and adult
brains
356 of butterflies and bees: silkworm lwop [55]; hawkmoth lwop [56]; and, bumble bee uvop [33].
Lampel et al.
357 [56] speculated on the circadian role of invertebrate extraretinal opsins, however, in at least
one vertebrate
358 both melanopsin and teleost multiple tissue opsin have recently been implicated in the
regulation of
359 circadian rhythm in blind cavefish [32].”
Correct. but there is more to that - see evolution of insect larval eyes:
Evolution: Education and Outreach
October 2008, Volume 1, Issue 4, pp 448-462
Date: 18 Oct 2008
Evolution of Insect Eyes: Tales of Ancient Heritage, Deconstruction, Reconstruction, Remodeling,
and Recycling
Elke K. Buschbeck, Markus Friedrich
Friedrich, M. (2013) Development and evolution of the Drosophila Bolwig’s organ: A compound
eye relict. In: Molecular Genetics of Axial Patterning, Growth and Disease in the Drosophila Eye,
Editors: Amit Singh, Madhuri Kango-Singh, pp 329-357
16.
“Evolutionary Development”
this section feels somehow random in the sense of insufficiently introduced or build up in the
course of the ms
17.
“The finding that lwop transcripts were not detected in the two other subterranean species in
this study, could either be an artefact of (
a) evolutionary age, or (
b) that transcript levels were too low for
379 detection. “
that’s unnecessary and repetitive critique for my taste.
18.
“Our finding of a
6
393 general lack of opsin expression among three independently evolved subterranean diving
beetle lineages
394 suggests a parallel loss of opsin expression in an aphotic environment, which we argue, is
indicative of
395 ‘neutral’ regressive evolution”
the discussion focuses on the conservation of LW-opsin expression in of the subterraneans and
almost forgets to mention the loss of expression in the other species. how, for instance, does this
finding relate to the estimated cave colonization times?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Horst Wilkens)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The shared ancestry of animal vision has made opsin an ideal candidate gene for phylogenetic
studies. This gene has in particular become important for the study of the adaptation process into
different niches characterized by differing light wave lengths. Its study is highly relevant in case
animal species change into habitats characterized by total darkness. Here the specific situation
arises where closely related species evolve convergent. Moreover, due to shared ancestry of opsin
genes species of different taxonomic groups like arthropods and even fish may be compared.
In the study “Opsin trancripts of predatory diving beetles: a comparison of surface and
subterranean photic niches” the authors deal with one of the most interesting and well-studied
examples of the evolution of cave animals. They assess differential transcription of opsin
photoreceptor genes among the transcriptomes of two Australian surface and three cave dytiscid
beetle species. Transcripts for UV, longwavelength and extraretinal opsins were identified in the
surface transcriptomes. As expected under the conditions of loss of visual function two cave
species showed parallel loss of all opsin transcription. However, the third cave species retained
transcription of a longwavelength opsin. The authors attribute this finding to pleiotropy or an
incipient phase of pseudogene development – a possibility not very probable in face of the long
time of troglobitic evolution.
The authors are presenting a very interesting paper with results of general importance for the
study of regressive evolution in cave animals and in general. The data are very valuable because
of the possibility of comparison of the same gene occurring in taxonomic diverse groups. The
7
methods they use are appropriate. The paper is clearly written with a detailed reference list and
presented in a tautened way of writing. The conclusions are comprehensible.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140386)
10-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Tierney
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140386 entitled
"Opsin transcripts of predatory diving beetles: a comparison of surface and subterranean photic
niches" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision
in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". Main documents should
include the following sections at the end of the paper, prior to the references section:
• Ethics statement - where relevant
• Data accessibility statement - where relevant
• Competing interests statement
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
8
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140386.R0)
See Appendix A.
RESPONSE TO REVIEWER COMMENTS
ar Emilie,
ase find an itemised response to reviewer comments, pertaining to manuscript RSOS-140386. Comments
re received 10th November 2014.
urs sincerely,
mon Tierney
OS-140386
sin transcripts of predatory diving beetles: a comparison of surface and subterranean photic niches
rney SM, Cooper SJB, Saint KM, Bertozzi T, Hyde J, Humprehys WF & Austin AD.
y:
itorial and Reviewer Comments in black font
thor Responses in blue font
ne numbers denoted by ‘L’
*******************************
sociate Editor Comments to Author:
sociate Editor: 1
mments to the Author:
e first reviewer raises several points that should be considered as they have the potential to increase the
ength of the manuscript. The changes that could result from following these recommendations could be
nsidered as minor revisions, as long as performing the reciprocal BLAST searches does not change the range
sequences used in the phylogenetic trees. With regards to the reviewer's third major point (searching for
ther vision genes) I suggest that the authors can consider to what extent they would like to pursue this
enue of further analysis, but I do not consider this to be an essential revision in order for the manuscript to be
epted, since these extra searches could well result in a wealth of further information that might be more
ted to a second manuscript instead of diluting the current focus on the opsins.
ost of the other recommendations can, I think, be dealt with by minor modifications to the text or relatively
ick sequence read counts.
rney et al.
e have performed reciprocal BLAST searches (tBLASTn) and these do not alter any results presented in the
ginal submission version, so no alterations with regard to sequences used in a phylogenetic context. Please
response to Reviewer 1 below (Major point #2).
sociate Editor: 2
mments to the Author:
here are no comments.)
mments to Author:
viewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
1 
bterranean diving beetle species and a surface relative for comparison by deep transcriptome sequencing. The
iewer concurs with the authors that the genetic consequences and causes of cave adaptation represent
portant yet still insufficiently studied questions. The reviewer was also happy to see this approached with the
wly available power of transcriptome sequencing. However, analysis and discussion of the data still leave
ch to wish for at this point.
rney et al.
e have compared three subterranean species with two related surface species, from two different tribes of
tiscidae. Not two and two as the reviewer seems to imply
jor points:
Little information is given regarding basic aspects of the visual system and ecology of the species under
dy. How large is the eye of the surface species? Is there anything known regarding the dispersal activity or
ssibilities of the two subterranean species. What is the degree of cave adaptation in the latter two in terms of
er troglomorphic features such as pigmentation loss of appendage elongation? These framework data could
pact the discussion of the results.
rney et al.
ere are no published histological studies on the eyes of these beetles, though taxonomic studies have noted
t there is a complete absence of any external eye structures in all subterranean species, with the exception of
species Limbodessus microocular which shows the presence of some eye pigment in the location where the
e would normally be found. In the latter species, preliminary histological studies revealed a complete absence
internal eye structures (i.e. the remnants of compound eyes). In addition, there is no comprehensive study of
ir general ecology, although the behaviour of several subterranean species has been noted (Bradford et al.
14), and one ongoing project is exploring food-webs. There are numerous general reviews of the
bterranean system and taxonomic revisions of the focal taxa, which are cited in the second paragraph of the
roduction.
ere are population-level studies of two of the three subterranean species examined in our study (Guzik et al.
09, 2011), which have shown low levels of dispersal within calcretes, and phylogeographic studies have
own that dispersal among calcretes has generally been absent for millions of years. Therefore, the calcretes
resent isolated closed island systems that have been described as ‘islands under the desert’ (Cooper et al.
02).
address this issue we have now revised and inserted the following text at the end of the second paragraph of
Introduction [L67-73]:
hylogeographic studies have provided strong evidence that the calcrete aquifers represent closed island
tems, with no evidence for gene flow among stygobitic species from different aquifers and an absence of
ne flow from surface species over millions of years [19-23,27], potentially long enough for neutral genetic
anges to be detected in eye genes that are no longer functional [11]. These attributes, and the independent
olution of the majority of stygobitic beetle species from surface ancestors, provide for a powerful model
tem to explore the long-term genomic changes that accompany regressive evolution of subterranean
mals.”
e reiterated this point in the discussion of the original submission [L355-358]:
(b) neither of these aforementioned cave environments physically isolate the organisms from their
pective surface relatives, which is the case for the calcrete aquifers that house the Australian dytiscid beetle
gofauna [17,35,36], and an important distinction between our study system and most other explorations of
ressive evolution in eye genes.”
2 
mentation. We have now modified the text in the last paragraph of the Introduction [L87-89]:
e take a qualitative candidate gene approach and use high-throughput sequencing techniques to compare
nscriptomes of two surface and three subterranean dytiscid beetle species that are blind and lack
mentation.”
Analysis and presentation of the ortholog searches is cumbersome and not state of the art. Instead of the
undant candidate gene set, the authors should establish orthology by reciprocal BLASTing (not explicitly
ne) and the gene tree analysis they performed.
rney et al.
e have now undertaken reciprocal BLAST (tBLASTn), and these are now mentioned in the Methods [L138-
9]:
e then performed a reciprocal search (tBLASTn),…”
ese additional results re-confirm the orthology of the best hits identified by the BLASTx searches, and do not
ange any of the results presented prior to these analyses being undertaken. Thus, there was no influence on
bsequent phylogenetic analyses.
e only discrepancies amongst BLASTx and tBLASTn best hits were among poor quality best-hits for the two
cies wherein no opsin orthologues were identified (N. gutteridgei & P. macrosturtensis). The tBLASTn
ults are now included in Table S1 (S1.1.1b, S1.2.1b, S1.3.1b, S1.4.1b & S1.5.1b) and discrepancies are
noted by asterisks, none of these alternate best hits displayed a sequence identity match of > 32 % and
ASTn searches of the GenBank database did not returned any positive matches.
out defence, we did undertake a stringent assessment of orthology based on the BLASTx best hit results, by
ividually BLASTing them against all available sequences archived in GenBank (BLASTn) and subsequently
dertook phylogenetic inference to confirm orthology among related insect opsin genes (Figures 1 & 3).
It is not clear why the authors did not search for additional vision genes of complete transcriptomes were
nerated. That would increase the sample sensitivity of their search for evidence of vision preservation.
rney et al.
e focus of this manuscript is on opsin genes-suites, and we did not want to dilute the central findings by
panding the scope of this paper.
The detection of LW-opsin expression in one of the two subterranean species is of course most significant.
tead of resorting to the ad hoc claim of this to represent evidence of other functions which is not specifically
pported by the data [i.e. why is it that the most sensitive opsin has remained? why should only LW-opsins
ve other functions but not UV-opsins?], the authors should compare expression levels between the cave
cies and the surface species. That could tell something about the number or nature of cells which expression
conserved LW-opsin. expression levels could be normalized in approximation based on amount of total
A used to generate the library as well as based on the read coverage of house keeping genes compared to the
sin genes.
rney et al.
e are aware of the problem with purporting evidence for or against philosophical arguments in absence of
pirical data, which is specifically why we canvas all possibilities and identify caveats where appropriate.
e do not understand the claim that long-wavelength opsin is “the most sensitive opsin”. UV opsin may well
ve other functions that we are not aware of, but in the context of the current study it is not expressed in any
er subterranean species so we are unsure of what the reviewer would have us contribute.
3 
e reviewer suggests we make direct comparisons of expression levels, however these would be best
ommodated by a quantitative real-time PCR approach that is beyond the scope of the current study which
used on the presence and absence of opsin transcripts - a ‘qualitative approach’.
e did however quantify sequence assembly coverage for each identified opsin orthologue transcript in each
cies individually. This data is now included in the manuscript and shows that coverage levels of
gwavelength opsin in the subterranean species L. palmulaoides is slightly greater than coverage levels for
iary-type opsin in the two surface species (A. bistrigatus & P. nigroadumbratus). We include the following
t in the Methods and Results and a new table and figure (Table 1; Figure 2):
thods – Assembly [L129-130]
ead coverage depth for transcripts of interest were ascertained with bedtools (v2.22.0) and summarised in
SS Statistics (v21).”
sults - Orthologue coverage depth [L209-217]
epth of sequencing coverage for each of the seven identified opsin orthologues (un-edited) is summarised in
ble 1 and plotted on a log-normal scale in Figure 2. The non-visual c-opsin from surface species exhibited
lowest levels of mean coverage per nucleotide base (< 12 times coverage). The visual opsins of surface
etle species showed coverage at orders of magnitude higher (uvop means < 1,220 times coverage; lwop
ans < 69,015 times coverage). The lwop of the subterranean L. palmulaoides displayed a mean sequence
verage depth of 22.51 (± s.e. 0.57) per nucleotide base, which is double the level of coverage found for c-
sin in the two surface species; this suggests that our finding of the expression of a visual opsin in a blind
bterranean beetle is not an aberration.”
nor points:
fferential transcription”
s term is usually referred to differences in expression between cells/tissues in the same organism
rney et al.
e have deleted the word ‘differential’ from the abstract.
xtraretinal (but not blue) opsins”
e study captured orthologs of the conserved c-opsin subfamily in insects but use different terms for this
oughout the ms. While this does reflect an unfortunate pre-existing heterogeneity of terms in the literature,
authors are advised to resort to single consistent terms, maybe making reference to Porter et al 2012:
edding new light on opsin evolution.
rter ML, Blasic JR, Bok MJ, Cameron EG, Pringle T, Cronin TW, Robinson PR.
oc Biol Sci. 2012 Jan 7;279(1726):3-14.
rney et al.
e have replaced the term ‘extraretinal’ with ‘ciliary-type’ or ‘non-visual’ and have made reference to Porter
al. (2012) in the Introduction.
eak <U+03BB> sensitivity. “
4 
velength?
rney et al.
e have replace lambda with the text ‘wavelength’.
etrics for the de novo assemblies are summarised in Table S3. We recovered between 50.6 and 78.9
8 million paired-end reads for each of the five species. Assembled transcripts, ranged from 84,667 to 182,240
9 per species (contig N50 ranged from 565 and 1,067 bp) and total aligned reads ranged from 37 to 74.3
0 million reads. “
e these transcriptome data publicly available?
rney et al.
e complete transcriptomes will be publicly available following the publication of a second manuscript
scribing the expression of additional eye genes (currently in preparation). Additional analyses are required to
ify the assemblies. All the opsin sequence data that we have obtained in the current study are publicly
ailable on GenBank.
e majority of GenBank nucleotide matches (BLASTn derived) to best hit transcripts
4 (derived from BLASTx) were to other members of the G protein-coupled receptor family (which includes
5 opsins) that were not related to phototransduction (Tables S1.3.3, S1.5.5.3). This suggests that our
6 assemblies were of high quality and capable of discerning transcripts at high fidelity.”
e the subterranean species and surface species characterized by similar representation of other receptor
nscripts?
quantitative comparison of average raw sequence coverage would be an important point of comparison
e new Figure 2 shows that the sequence coverage of the longwavelength opsin of the subterranean species is
pressed at levels greater than that of ciliary-type opsin from the two surface species. A more exhaustive
rch is beyond the scope of this study, however Table S3 displays broad transcriptome-read and assembly
tistics that indicate data for the subterranean taxa are as good or better than those of the surface taxa.
elow, results from surface species are presented independently of subterranean species and
respond to the conceptual workflow outlined in Figure S1 and results tabulated in Table S1, as follows….”
ving active and passive tense in the same sentence reads strange. this part reads more like a methods section
d needs to be rewritten for clarity
rney et al.
is sentence has been re-written and incorporated within the preceding paragraph [L183-185]. The remainder
s been incorporated within the corresponding Methods section.
5 
he assembled contigs returned amino acid translated matches to
6 non-visual opsins of other (non-Candidate) insect taxa (Tables S1.1.1, S1.4.1), as well as more stringent
7 nucleotide matches to these targets (Tables S1.1.3, S1.4.3).”
ink the presentation/discussion of nucleotide and aa matches is redundant. I recommend to focus the
holog search to conceptual protein sequences.
rney et al.
ese are the results of the orthologue searches. The secondary BLASTn to the GenBank archive is more
ingent than a reciprocal tBLASTn as it is at the nucleotide level. We have re-phrased the sub-headings and
minology to improve clarity.
arapinopsin-like” reference?
t present/talk about reBLAST confirmed orthologs
rney et al.
is is a BLAST confirmed orthologue, derived from BLASTn. We have included the accession number for
parapinopsin in the text [L189].
ith an additional three non-visual opsins (Figure 2, Table S2)”
o spell out in the text which ones
rney et al.
ese are listed immediately below [L222-225]:
ased on the aforementioned BLAST results we included the parapinopsin of B. mori. To root the tree, we
luded two vertebrate non-visual opsins as outgroups: multiple tissue opsin of Takifugu rubripes; and teleost
ltiple tissue opsin of Danio rerio.”
.
he dytiscid
0 longwavelength opsin clade was a sister group to bee and butterfly clades, however, a usual outcome was
1 that the
castaneum copy was recovered as sister lineages to all other long-wavelength opsins. This
2 sequence was approximately one third shorter than most other long-wavelength copies, which may account
3 for this apparent aberration.”
e this one: rhodopsin 1/6-like [Tribolium castaneum]
BI Reference Sequence: NP_001155991.1
rney et al.
e did use this sequence, the accession number has since been superseded and we now use NP_001155991
oughout the manuscript. We have removed the comment regarding short sequence length, as it is not
evant.
6 
here was no evidence for
3 recombination in this alignment.”
on’t it is necessary to mention in the result part. maybe in the methods part.
rney et al.
e have deleted this sentence from the Results.
.
e did not identify a blue opsin orthologue at all in dytiscids, but note that its loss has been
7 documented for the red flour beetle [42], and the only other publicly available sequence data for a dytiscid
8 beetles’ opsins is from larvae of the sunburst diving beetle, which also lacks blue-sensitivity [43,44].
9 Maintenance of blue sensitivity is likely to be dependent on the photic niche of the focal species and
0 electroretinogram studies suggest day-active predatory lady beetles do possess blue-sensitive (420 nm)
1 photopigments [45].”
at is the conclusion of this paragraph?
rney et al.
ere is no conclusion. Insects typically possess trichromatic colour vision sensitive to UV, blue and
gwavelength regions of the spectrum. There is very little data on beetle opsin genes, so we briefly touch on
e opsins.
rosophila melanogaster possess an extra-retinal blue-light photopigment cryptochrome, which
4 regulates circadian rhythms. However, beetles and bees studied thus far possess an orthologue of
5 cryptochrome that is not photosensitive and most similar to vertebrate-like cryptochrome, wherein it plays
6 no circadian role [46,47].”
rrect. But if you raise this issue in the discussion what would expected at least efforts of a search for these
nes in the transcriptomes that were generated.
rney et al.
e have removed these two sentences from the Discussion.
.
owever, the subterranean beetles are proposed to have
9 colonised calcrete aquifers during the Plio-Pleistocene aridification of Australia [24,25], with a major
0 radiation of these subterranean beetles of between 3-8 Mya”
would be nice if the evidence for that could be given in compact form
rney et al.
e have added the following extension [L342-345]:
owever, the subterranean beetles are proposed to have colonised calcrete aquifers during the Plio-Pleistocene
dification of Australia [22], with a major radiation of these subterranean beetles estimated between 3-8 Mya,
sed on uncalibrated molecular-clock analyses [23].”
.
7 
mong insects there is evidence of functional visual-opsin expression in the larval and adult brains
6 of butterflies and bees: silkworm lwop [55]; hawkmoth lwop [56]; and, bumble bee uvop [33]. Lampel et
7 [56] speculated on the circadian role of invertebrate extraretinal opsins, however, in at least one vertebrate
8 both melanopsin and teleost multiple tissue opsin have recently been implicated in the regulation of
9 circadian rhythm in blind cavefish [32].”
rrect. but there is more to that - see evolution of insect larval eyes:
olution: Education and Outreach
tober 2008, Volume 1, Issue 4, pp 448-462
te: 18 Oct 2008
olution of Insect Eyes: Tales of Ancient Heritage, Deconstruction, Reconstruction, Remodeling, and
cycling
ke K. Buschbeck, Markus Friedrich
edrich, M. (2013) Development and evolution of the Drosophila Bolwig’s organ: A compound eye relict. In:
olecular Genetics of Axial Patterning, Growth and Disease in the Drosophila Eye, Editors: Amit Singh,
dhuri Kango-Singh, pp 329-357
rney et al.
e have modified the relevant section accordingly [L360-367]:
mong insects there is evidence of functional visual-opsin expression in the larval and adult brains of
tterflies and bees: silkworm lwop [58]; hawkmoth lwop [59]; and, bumble bee uvop [33]. Lampel et al. [59]
culated on the circadian role of invertebrate non-visual opsins, and in at least one vertebrate, point mutations
op-codons) in both melanopsin and teleost multiple tissue opsin are implicated in the de-activation of diurnal
cadian rhythm in blind cavefish [32]. The rentention (‘recycling’) of larval-stage visual organs in adults of
me endopterygote insects are also implicated in deep-brain circadian-entrainment (notably Drosophila,
bolium and Thermonectus - reviewed by [60,61]); suggesting ontogenesis of these insect visual systems is
mplex and deserved of considerable attention.”
.
volutionary Development”
s section feels somehow random in the sense of insufficiently introduced or build up in the course of the ms
rney et al.
is is the evolutionary context of the manuscript and given the short format we have not undertaken an
pansive build up. We have removed the subheading ‘Evolutionary Development’.
.
he finding that lwop transcripts were not detected in the two other subterranean species in this study, could
her be an artefact of (
evolutionary age, or (
that transcript levels were too low for
9 detection. “
t’s unnecessary and repetitive critique for my taste.
rney et al.
e have removed this from the Discussion
8 
.
ur finding of a
3 general lack of opsin expression among three independently evolved subterranean diving beetle lineages
4 suggests a parallel loss of opsin expression in an aphotic environment, which we argue, is indicative of
5 ‘neutral’ regressive evolution”
discussion focuses on the conservation of LW-opsin expression in of the subterraneans and almost forgets
mention the loss of expression in the other species. how, for instance, does this finding relate to the estimated
ve colonization times?
rney et al.
e do not possess sufficient comparative data to address this issue comprehensively, which is why we remain
erved in our conclusions, [L381-383]:
e do not currently have a wide enough sampling of taxa in our system to be confident in linking the
mparative age of subterranean colonisation by L. palmulaoides, relative to other stygobitic species, as a
tor contributing to the retention of a seemingly functional lwop protein. ”
viewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
e shared ancestry of animal vision has made opsin an ideal candidate gene for phylogenetic studies. This
ne has in particular become important for the study of the adaptation process into different niches
aracterized by differing light wave lengths. Its study is highly relevant in case animal species change into
bitats characterized by total darkness. Here the specific situation arises where closely related species evolve
nvergent. Moreover, due to shared ancestry of opsin genes species of different taxonomic groups like
hropods and even fish may be compared.
the study “Opsin trancripts of predatory diving beetles: a comparison of surface and subterranean photic
hes” the authors deal with one of the most interesting and well-studied examples of the evolution of cave
mals. They assess differential transcription of opsin photoreceptor genes among the transcriptomes of two
stralian surface and three cave dytiscid beetle species. Transcripts for UV, longwavelength and extraretinal
sins were identified in the surface transcriptomes. As expected under the conditions of loss of visual function
o cave species showed parallel loss of all opsin transcription. However, the third cave species retained
nscription of a longwavelength opsin. The authors attribute this finding to pleiotropy or an incipient phase of
udogene development – a possibility not very probable in face of the long time of troglobitic evolution.
e authors are presenting a very interesting paper with results of general importance for the study of
ressive evolution in cave animals and in general. The data are very valuable because of the possibility of
mparison of the same gene occurring in taxonomic diverse groups. The methods they use are appropriate.
e paper is clearly written with a detailed reference list and presented in a tautened way of writing. The
nclusions are comprehensible.
erature cited by the authors in this response:
adford T.M., Humphreys W.F., Austin A.D. & Cooper S.J.B. 2014. Identification of trophic niches of
bterranean diving beetles in a calcrete aquifer by DNA and stable isotope analyses. Mar. Freshwater Res. 65:
-104.
oper S.J.B., Hinze S., Leys R., Watts C.H.S. & Humphreys W.F. 2002. Islands under the desert: molecular
tematics and evolutionary origins of stygobitic water beetles (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae) from central Western
stralia. Invert. Syst. 16: 589-598.
9 
mpatric sister species triplet of subterranean diving beetles from a single calcrete aquifer in Western
stralia. Mol. Ecol. 18: 3683-3698.
zik MT, Cooper SJB, Humphreys WF, Ong S, Kawakami T & Austin AD. 2011. Evidence for population
gmentation within a subterranean aquatic habitat in the Western Australian desert. Heredity 107: 215-230.
10 
Society Open
