Hybridization generates a hopeful monster: a
hermaphroditic selfing cichlid
Ola Svensson, Alan Smith, Javier García-Alonso and Cock van Oosterhout
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150684.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150684
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150684.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript presents a very interesting finding. When creating hybrids between two closely
related cichlid species endemic from Lake Victoria, out of the F1 offspring (it is not specified how
many F1 were generated), one developed into a functional hermaphrodite. This individual
managed to produce 14 broods and 46 offspring while in complete isolation. Genetic analyses
indicate no apparent aberrant chromosome numbers.
This is an interesting and rare finding. Although it proofs that selfing is possible in those cichlid
species, it is also an anecdotic finding.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The Authors report the generation of a functional hermaphroditic individual through
hybridization of two closely related species of cichlids (Pundamilia pundamilia and Neochromis
omnicaeruleus), and the production of fertile male and female offspring by this individual
through selfing. The data consist of 7 individuals (the two parents, the hermaphroditic F1
offspring and four F2 offspring) genotyped at nine microsatellite markers, as well as histological
analyses of the gonads of the hermaphroditic individual. This observation is certainly worth
reporting and I have no major issue with the manuscript. Nevertheless, several aspects of the
methods and results could be further developed.
3
In particular, more details could be provided regarding the hybrid cross (first paragraph of the
Methods). How many hybrid crosses were performed and what proportion produced offspring?
What proportion of offspring survived to adulthood? Have other F1 individuals been analyzed
histologically and/or also been observed to reproduce in isolation? Is the hermaphroditic
individual an oddity or the rule when crossing these two species? Is it any different when the sex
of the two parents is reversed (male Pundamilia pundamilia and female Neochromis
omnicaeruleus)?
Why restrict the microsatellite analyses to only 4 of the 46 offspring? Analyzing more individuals
would strengthen the results and conclusion.
It should also be stated upfront in the Results that all the alleles of the hermaphroditic offspring
were also present in the hermaphroditic individual. This is clear in Table 1 but not mentioned in
the Results, and provides support for the hypothesis that the four offspring result from self-
fertilization.
It is mentioned that two sons and fifteen daughters survived to adulthood. This suggests a sex
bias that could be discussed. Also is there any information available about the F3 offspring
(survival, sex)?
Line 49: replace 'reproduced' by 'produced'?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150684)
03-Feb-2016
Dear Dr Svensson,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Hybridisation generates a hopeful monster – a
hermaphroditic selfing cichlid") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 26-Feb-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
4
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150684
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr David Ferrier):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
One referee has recommended rejection of the manuscript, on the basis that they view it as
anecdotal. I am of the opinion that this is not a valid criticism, and since this referee also finds the
reported results interesting then I am inclined to disregard the recommendation for rejection.
The second referee makes a number of suggestions for revisions, which would clearly strengthen
the manuscript. We would appreciate every effort being made to incorporate as many of these
suggested changes as possible. If any of these changes cannot be made then clear reasons should
be given as to why this is the case.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript presents a very interesting finding. When creating hybrids between two closely
related cichlid species endemic from Lake Victoria, out of the F1 offspring (it is not specified how
many F1 were generated), one developed into a functional hermaphrodite. This individual
managed to produce 14 broods and 46 offspring while in complete isolation. Genetic analyses
indicate no apparent aberrant chromosome numbers.
This is an interesting and rare finding. Although it proofs that selfing is possible in those cichlid
species, it is also an anecdotic finding.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The Authors report the generation of a functional hermaphroditic individual through
hybridization of two closely related species of cichlids (Pundamilia pundamilia and Neochromis
omnicaeruleus), and the production of fertile male and female offspring by this individual
through selfing. The data consist of 7 individuals (the two parents, the hermaphroditic F1
offspring and four F2 offspring) genotyped at nine microsatellite markers, as well as histological
6
analyses of the gonads of the hermaphroditic individual. This observation is certainly worth
reporting and I have no major issue with the manuscript. Nevertheless, several aspects of the
methods and results could be further developed.
In particular, more details could be provided regarding the hybrid cross (first paragraph of the
Methods). How many hybrid crosses were performed and what proportion produced offspring?
What proportion of offspring survived to adulthood? Have other F1 individuals been analyzed
histologically and/or also been observed to reproduce in isolation? Is the hermaphroditic
individual an oddity or the rule when crossing these two species? Is it any different when the sex
of the two parents is reversed (male Pundamilia pundamilia and female Neochromis
omnicaeruleus)?
Why restrict the microsatellite analyses to only 4 of the 46 offspring? Analyzing more individuals
would strengthen the results and conclusion.
It should also be stated upfront in the Results that all the alleles of the hermaphroditic offspring
were also present in the hermaphroditic individual. This is clear in Table 1 but not mentioned in
the Results, and provides support for the hypothesis that the four offspring result from self-
fertilization.
It is mentioned that two sons and fifteen daughters survived to adulthood. This suggests a sex
bias that could be discussed. Also is there any information available about the F3 offspring
(survival, sex)?
Line 49: replace 'reproduced' by 'produced'?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150684)
See Appendix A.
Dear Dr David Ferrier,
Thank you very much for letting us resubmit our revised manuscript. We have inserted our
esponse in the decision letter below.
On behalf of all authors,
Ola Svensson
Associate Editor's comments (Dr David Ferrier):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
One referee has recommended rejection of the manuscript, on the basis that they view it as
anecdotal. I am of the opinion that this is not a valid criticism, and since this referee also finds
he reported results interesting then I am inclined to disregard the recommendation for
ejection.
The second referee makes a number of suggestions for revisions, which would clearly
strengthen the manuscript. We would appreciate every effort being made to incorporate as
many of these suggested changes as possible. If any of these changes cannot be made then
clear reasons should be given as to why this is the case.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript presents a very interesting finding. When creating hybrids between two
closely related cichlid species endemic from Lake Victoria, out of the F1 offspring (it is not
specified how many F1 were generated), one developed into a functional hermaphrodite. This
ndividual managed to produce 14 broods and 46 offspring while in complete isolation.
Genetic analyses indicate no apparent aberrant chromosome numbers.
This is an interesting and rare finding. Although it proofs that selfing is possible in those
cichlid species, it is also an anecdotic finding.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The Authors report the generation of a functional hermaphroditic individual through
hybridization of two closely related species of cichlids (Pundamilia pundamilia and
Neochromis omnicaeruleus), and the production of fertile male and female offspring by this
ndividual through selfing. The data consist of 7 individuals (the two parents, the
hermaphroditic F1 offspring and four F2 offspring) genotyped at nine microsatellite markers,
as well as histological analyses of the gonads of the hermaphroditic individual. This
observation is certainly worth reporting and I have no major issue with the manuscript.
Nevertheless, several aspects of the methods and results could be further developed.
n particular, more details could be provided regarding the hybrid cross (first paragraph of the
Methods). How many hybrid crosses were performed and what proportion produced
offspring? What proportion of offspring survived to adulthood? Have other F1 individuals
been analyzed histologically and/or also been observed to reproduce in isolation? Is the
hermaphroditic individual an oddity or the rule when crossing these two species? Is it any
different when the sex of the two parents is reversed (male Pundamilia pundamilia and female
Neochromis omnicaeruleus)?
Reply: We have included the following text in the manuscript, providing more details on the
hybrid crosses:
Methods pages 3-4 lines 53-60:
Females of Pundamilia (Haplochromis) pundamilia and Pundamilia (Haplochromis) nyererei
were crossed with OB-coloured males of Neochromis (Haplochromis) omnicaeruleus (N=31
crosses).These closely related, often sympatric, species have an estimated divergence time of
0.1-0.35 million years [12]. When 81 F1 female hybrids were kept in isolation for 1-6 weeks
to be photographed), one female (“intersex”, P. pundamilia x N. omnicarelueus, Fig 1A)
spawned. In total this intersex produced 14 broods, raising 46 living F2-juveniles over a
period of 25 months whilst in isolation in a 20x20x20 aquarium. Two sons and 15 daughters
survived to adulthood and were fertile.
Methods page 4 lines 61-63:
As an effort to find further selfing individuals, all 18 full-sib sisters and 12 daughters of the
ntersex were kept in isolation for 12 months.
Results pages 5-6, lines 103-114:
Adult offspring
showed female nuptial coloration after 12 months, which deviates significantly from an equal
sex ratio (Binomial test, p = 0.0075). Twenty-eight individuals could not be sexed because
hey died when juveniles (58.5% mortality) which was higher than the (mean ± SD) 7.6 ±
13.1% mortality in F1 crosses between the same two species as the intersex female [RB
Stelkens, personal communication, 19]. When crossed, both surviving F2-males successfully
spawned with 10 out of the 15 sisters and produced offspring of both sexes with an
approximately equal sex ratio (15 males and 18 females, Binomial test, p = 0.73). This F3-
generation also showed reduced survival (45% juvenile mortality), but proved to be fertile.
None of the 18 full-sib sisters of the intersex, nor any of the 12 daughters, reproduced whilst
kept in isolation.
Discussion page 7, lines 138-142:
Because OB-polymorphism appears to be involved in the reversal of genetic sex
determination in cichlids [8, 9] the parents of the intersex female (non-OB x OB) were likely
o possess different sex determining genes. However, selfing appears to be an oddity rather
han a rule in this cross because none of the intersex’ sisters or offspring reproduced by
selfing when kept in isolation.
Why restrict the microsatellite analyses to only 4 of the 46 offspring? Analyzing more
ndividuals would strengthen the results and conclusion.
Reply: Initially, the microsatellite analysis was restricted to four individuals for logistic
easons. Only four offspring had been produced when the person doing the microsatellite
analysis (OS) left for a new position.
However, the results and conclusion would not be strengthened by including more
ndividuals. Table 1 clearly shows that all other modes of reproduction than selfing can be
uled out based on the allele segregation observed in each of the four offspring. These
offspring can be regarded as ‘independent’ experiments (of allelic segregation), and as such,
hey are the metaphoric ‘black swan’; a single observation that suffices to disprove a rule or
hypothesis, i.e. “that all swans are white”, or in our case “that selfing vertebrates do not
occur”.
Furthermore, the computer simulations show that even with four individuals we have strong
statistical power to reject all alternative hypotheses on a ‘population level’ including sexual
eproduction with brothers (Please note that it was completely impossible to reproduce with a
brother because she was kept in isolation, and we only included the simulations to
demonstrate the strong statistical power with which we could reject alternative hypotheses.)
The inclusion of additional individuals was therefore not required.
What we can’t do with these four analysed offspring is confirming with 100% certainty that
he rest of the offspring were produced by selfing. However, because she was continuously
kept in isolation, we find it safe to conclude that all offspring were produced by selfing, rather
han that she changed to reproduce through parthenogenesis.
We have included the following text in the manuscript:
All alleles of each offspring were present in the intersex (table 1) and together with the fact
hat the intersex was held in isolation, we can for each analysed offspring confidently exclude
all known modes of reproduction in vertebrates except selfing. Other forms of reproduction
without a mate would either result in genetically identical clones, or individuals with a near-
complete homozygous genome (automixis with terminal meiotic fusion), or heterozygous
genome (automixis with central fusion) [6, 15-19].
t should also be stated upfront in the Results that all the alleles of the hermaphroditic
offspring were also present in the hermaphroditic individual. This is clear in Table 1 but not
mentioned in the Results, and provides support for the hypothesis that the four offspring result
rom self-fertilization.
Reply: Done (see above)
t is mentioned that two sons and fifteen daughters survived to adulthood. This suggests a sex
bias that could be discussed. Also is there any information available about the F3 offspring
survival, sex)?
Reply: We have included the following text in the manuscript:
Results pages 5-6, lines 103-114:
As above
Discussion page 7-8, lines 162-171:
n the present study, the offspring of the intersex female appeared to suffer from inbreeding
depression resulting in high juvenile mortality. Furthermore, there was a significant female-
biased sex ratio in those F2-hybrids. Such bias in sex ratio is consistent with Haldane’s rule
33] which stipulates that the heterogametic sex tends to be absent or rare in hybrids.
However, because the parents of the intersex female (non-OB x OB) were likely to possess
different sex determining genes with different heterogametic sexes [8, 9], and because the F3-
hybrids showed no deviation in sex ratio, we do not want to speculate whether or not the
observed female bias in the F2 hybrids is due to Haldane’s rule, aggression based sex biased
mortality, or deviation due to conflicting sex determination systems.
Line 49: replace 'reproduced' by 'produced'?
Reply: Done
Society Open
