Egg shape changes at the theropod-bird transition, and a
morphometric study of amniote eggs
D. Charles Deeming and Marcello Ruta
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140311.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140311
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 September 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 3 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140311.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Julian Christians)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript is much more focused in its present form. A few minor comments: Line 66
“NPMANOVA tests whether variances of scores for various egg groups differ (H0: different
groups have similar means” Does npMANOVA test whether the variances differ, or whether the
variances between groups differ more than the variances within groups? If the former, why is the
null hypothesis about means? Line 67 “ANOSIM tests whether ranked distances among egg types
within the groups to which they belong differ from ranked distances among egg types when the
latter are assigned to groups at random (H0: ranked dissimilarities within groups have equal
median and range [17,19]).” I understand this, but I think it could be said more clearly. In the
legends of Fig 2 and 3, it would be helpful to include what PC1 and PC2/ ES1 and ES2 refer to
(elongate/ spherical vs. asymmetric). “Table 1. Results of npMANOVA and ANOSIM tests
conducted on PC1-2 and ES1-2 scores. For each pair-wise comparison, the values of the F
(npMANOVA) and R (ANOSIM) statistics are reported above the diagonal. The level of
significance for each comparison is reported below the diagonal. Pink cells show significant
comparisons.” I don’t think this is correct. The tables seem to be symmetrical above and below
the diagonal, with the F and R values in the top tables and the P-values in the bottom tables.
Table 1 and lines 120 and 121 – is “Cretaceous” being used interchangeably with “Mesozoic”?
Line 123 and elsewhere in this paragraph. I don’t think “PC1/ER” is a good notation, as it
suggests a ratio. I think PC1 vs. ER would be better. Line 175. I don’t follow the explanation of
why an elongate egg would not be expected to have a small yolk, because of constraints relating
to incubation period. Line 177. I also don’t follow the hypothesis that the elongate eggs of
theropods may have lacked albumen. I don’t understand why the egg would have been
elongated by sub-embryonic fluid rather than albumen. The last part of the Discussion is already
quite speculative, but are there alternative hypothesis of egg shape that are worth mentioning?
E.g., I would have thought that egg shape might be influenced by an animal’s style of
locomotion/ pelvis shape/ body shape. Julian Christians Simon Fraser University, Canada
label_end_comment
Decision letter
01-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Deeming
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140311 entitled
"Egg shape changes at the theropod-bird transition, and a morphometric study of amniote eggs"
has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below. The reviewers
and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to
your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript.
3
In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response to the referees. When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140311.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript is much more focused in its present form. A few minor comments:
Line 66 “NPMANOVA tests whether variances of scores for various egg groups differ (H0: different
groups have similar means” Does npMANOVA test whether the variances differ, or whether the
variances between groups differ more than the variances within groups? If the former, why is the
null hypothesis about means?
The referee is correct. We have rephrased the npMANOVA null hypothesis (it is about variances,
though in Fisher’s simplest formulation of standard ANOVA, the latter looks at differences in means).
We have added clarifications about what the test does.
Line 67 “ANOSIM tests whether ranked distances among egg types within the groups to which they
belong differ from ranked distances among egg types when the latter are assigned to groups at
random (H0: ranked dissimilarities within groups have equal median and range [17,19]).” I
understand this, but I think it could be said more clearly.
We have clarified what the test actually does, and we refer to the permutation technique explained
under npMANOVA.
In the legends of Fig 2 and 3, it would be helpful to include what PC1 and PC2/ ES1 and ES2 refer to
(elongate/ spherical vs. asymmetric).
This explanation has been added to the captions of Figs 2 and 3.
“Table 1. Results of npMANOVA and ANOSIM tests conducted on PC1-2 and ES1-2 scores. For each
pair-wise comparison, the values of the F (npMANOVA) and R (ANOSIM) statistics are reported
above the diagonal. The level of significance for each comparison is reported below the diagonal.
Pink cells show significant comparisons.”
I don’t think this is correct. The tables seem to be symmetrical above and below the diagonal, with
the F and R values in the top tables and the P-values in the bottom tables.
This is an error, which has now been corrected so that the caption to Table 1 correct.
Table 1 and lines 120 and 121 – is “Cretaceous” being used interchangeably with “Mesozoic”?
Corrected in text and table1
Line 123 and elsewhere in this paragraph. I don’t think “PC1/ER” is a good notation, as it suggests a
ratio. I think PC1 vs. ER would be better.
Corrected
Line 175. I don’t follow the explanation of why an elongate egg would not be expected to have a
small yolk, because of constraints relating to incubation period.
We have attempted to better explain this perspective with the addition of a reference.
Line 177. I also don’t follow the hypothesis that the elongate eggs of theropods may have lacked
albumen. I don’t understand why the egg would have been elongated by sub-embryonic fluid rather
than albumen.
We have tried to explain this point more clearly in the text. The issue lies around energy content of
eggs and the associated incubation period. A small yolk restricts the incubation period. Having water
deposited in albumen and its transfer into the yolk to produce Sub-embryonic fluid after oviposition
would have added considerable time to the incubation period. If the embryo develops in the oviduct
then it has to follow the same physiological processes as it would normally do and so SEF is formed
in the oviduct. As the ovum volume increased then constriction by the oviduct would have forced
the structure into an elongate shape.
The last part of the Discussion is already quite speculative, but are there alternative hypothesis of
egg shape that are worth mentioning? E.g., I would have thought that egg shape might be
influenced by an animal’s style of locomotion/ pelvis shape/ body shape.
There are many reports of how to describe egg shape but none that consider the processes by which
egg shape is achieved. At present, we have a student who is indeed considering how pelvis shape
and locomotion affect egg shape in birds but we felt that should be reported elsewhere.
Julian Christians
Simon Fraser University, Canada
Society Open
