King post truss as a motif for internal structure of
(meta)material with controlled elastic properties
Emilio Turco, Ivan Giorgio, Anil Misra and Francesco dell’Isola
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171153.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171153
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171153.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The comments are in attached file.pdf. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors develop a new metamaterial as an extension of the pantograph with internal
microstructure (the so-called king post truss), following a long series of papers devoted to the
specific and special properties and behavior of the pantigraph. This constitutes clearly a novel
contribution in the field of metamaterials, which will be of high interest for the reader of Royal
Society Open Science. The paper is clearly written and it deserves publication after the authors
have considered the following issues:
- fig. 2 is in the opinion of the present referee not clear enough, so it is suggested to place Fig. 9 at
the first place of the paper for the matter of clarification. What is the connection between fig. 3
and fig. 9 (especially the node numbering), and then with fig. 2(c).
In addition, some of the used notations need to be clarified, like the two couples of geometric
parameters indicated at the bottom of p. 3. In the same spirit, what represents length 3L on Fig.
2(s)?
- Does the reordering of the displacement vector d impact the solution methodology for the
nonlinear problem set in equ. (2.3)? the incorporation of kinematic constraints require some more
explanations.
- Could peeriodicity conditions for the unit cell shown in Fig. 9 be implemented?
- The occurrence of a transition from a softr to a stiff response could be the sign of mechanical
instabilities: is it tested in the numerical solution procedure?
- the colors in Fig. 11 are difficult to distinguish so the figure shall be enlarged.
3
- In addition to the local strain and energy distribution shown in Fig. 14, it shall be interesting to
add the global responses for the three structures, so one could then clearly see the benefits of
enriching the initial pantographic network with the king post unit.
- The authors shall sustain the notion of critical extension and bending supporting the phase
transition (from soft to stiff) by an analysis of the internal deformation mechanisms: what
mechanisms are responsible for the observed transition?
- The comparison done in Fig. 18 needs more comments.
- could the macro-scale behavior be described by a mere first gradient continuum, and if not,
what reasons support the developement of a second-gradient effective model? Could first
gradient model be sufficient for certain deformation modes only?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171153)
04-Sep-2017
Dear Professor TURCO
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171153 entitled
"King post truss as a motif for internal structure of (meta)material with controlled elastic
properties" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171153
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
4
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
the comments are in attched file.pdf.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors develop a new metamaterial as an extension of the pantograph with internal
microstructure (the so-called king post truss), following a long series of papers devoted to the
specific and special properties and behavior of the pantigraph. This constitutes clearly a novel
contribution in the field of metamaterials, which will be of high interest for the reader of Royal
Society Open Science. The paper is clearly written and it deserves publication after the authors
have considered the following issues:
- fig. 2 is in the opinion of the present referee not clear enough, so it is suggested to place Fig. 9 at
the first place of the paper for the matter of clarification. What is the connection between fig. 3
and fig. 9 (especially the node numbering), and then with fig. 2(c).
6
In addition, some of the used notations need to be clarified, like the two couples of geometric
parameters indicated at the bottom of p. 3. In the same spirit, what represents length 3L on Fig.
2(s)?
- Does the reordering of the displacement vector d impact the solution methodology for the
nonlinear problem set in equ. (2.3)? the incorporation of kinematic constraints require some more
explanations.
- Could peeriodicity conditions for the unit cell shown in Fig. 9 be implemented?
- The occurrence of a transition from a softr to a stiff response could be the sign of mechanical
instabilities: is it tested in the numerical solution procedure?
- the colors in Fig. 11 are difficult to distinguish so the figure shall be enlarged.
- In addition to the local strain and energy distribution shown in Fig. 14, it shall be interesting to
add the global responses for the three structures, so one could then clearly see the benefits of
enriching the initial pantographic network with the king post unit.
- The authors shall sustain the notion of critical extension and bending supporting the phase
transition (from soft to stiff) by an analysis of the internal deformation mechanisms: what
mechanisms are responsible for the observed transition?
- The comparison done in Fig. 18 needs more comments.
- could the macro-scale behavior be described by a mere first gradient continuum, and if not,
what reasons support the developement of a second-gradient effective model? Could first
gradient model be sufficient for certain deformation modes only?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171153)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171153.R1)
18-Sep-2017
Dear Professor TURCO,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "King post truss as a motif for internal
structure of (meta)material with controlled elastic properties" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
7
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
***************************
pendix A
nuscript ID: RSOS-171153
nuscript title: King post truss as a motif for internal structure of (meta)material with controlled elastic
perties
Authors analyse a particular kind of metamaterial, the so-called `pantographic structures', and propose
it a new topology for the periodic cellular architecture of the metamaterial microstructure. The original
cture is constituted by two families of long fibers one orthogonal to the other; the two sets of fibers are
rconnected by deformable cylinders at their intersecting points. For their purposes, the Authors
oduce and combine a king post truss into the pantographic structure in order to consider a microstructure
hich all the members are simply stretched or compressed short bars and, therefore, the role of the
ding resistance of the long fiber of the classical pantographic lattices are demanded to the newly
oduced king post truss.
levant feature of the new microstructure is that it seems to be more damage resistant and, therefore, to
able to have a wider elastic range. Moreover, it can be realised with the same 3D printing technology of
old version.
Authors define a discrete system based on the Hencky-model and perform numerical simulations, firstly,
he unit building block, and subsequently, they simulate the behaviour of all the 2D planar structure under
erent tests in order to investigate the specific behaviour of the proposed metamaterial.
lly, the Authors propose also an equivalent second gradient continuum model derived numerically by
ng the stored elastic energies of the discrete model and the continuum one.
manuscript is very interesting, very well documented, and nicely written. I recommend this manuscript
publication in Royal Society Open Science. I find no fault whatsoever with the methods, theoretical
lysis, or conclusions. The work is fundamentally sound. The Authors could, however, consider the remarks
suggestions reported below, which, in my opinion, might contribute to refine the quality of the
nuscript.
he reviewer opinion, a strong conclusive paragraph is missing in the conclusions. The Authors should
phasise why their structure is important, what the applications can be.
legend of figure 19 should be improved.
ppendix B
ING POST TRUSS AS A MOTIF FOR INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF
(META)MATERIAL WITH CONTROLLED ELASTIC PROPERTIES
EMILIO TURCO, IVAN GIORGIO, ANIL MISRA AND FRANCESCO DELL’ISOLA
behalf of the Authors, <U+FB01>rst of all I would like to thank the Editor for considering this
rk and the Reviewers for their suggestions which surely improve the quality of the paper.
ow there are a point-by-point response to the Reviewers’ observations.
Response to the Reviewers’ suggestions
viewer 1.
(1) In the reviewer opinion, a strong conclusive paragraph is missing in the conclu-
sions. The Authors should emphasise why their structure is important, what the
applications can be.
R1) The following sentence was added to the Conclusions: The proposed “metamate-
rial” is characterised by many useful mechanical features and, thus its technological
applications can be related to di<U+FB00>erent <U+FB01>elds. To this regards, it is worth mention-
ing three possible areas of application: i) in biomechanics, as prostheses in which
the anisotropy due to the pantographic <U+FB01>bers disposition and the wide range of
the elastic deformation could be required; ii) in aeronautic, aerospace, and naval
engineering, due to the lightness of the resulting components as well as the high
toughness and the reliability; iii) as impacting shields or bump devices with proper
arrangement in sandwich composite structures for the possibility to store a consid-
erable amount of elastic energy and then to dissipate it with proper dampers.
(2) The legend of <U+FB01>gure 19 should be improved.
R2) Figure 19 was enlarged and therefore now the legend is more readable.
viewer 2.
(1) Fig. 2 is in the opinion of the present referee not clear enough, so it is suggested
to place Fig. 9 at the <U+FB01>rst place of the paper for the matter of clari<U+FB01>cation. What
is the connection between Fig. 3 and Fig. 9 (especially the node numbering), and
then with Fig. 2(c). In addition, some of the used notations need to be clari<U+FB01>ed,
like the two couples of geometric parameters indicated at the bottom of p. 3. In
the same spirit, what represents length 3L on Fig. 2(s)?
R1) Following the Reviewer’s suggestion, Figure 2 was rearranged and the caption im-
proved in order to make it more readable. Some comments added in order to make
Date: September 14, 2017, Manuscript submitted to Royal Society Open Science
nuscript ID: RSOS-171153).
1
2 EMILIO TURCO, IVAN GIORGIO, ANIL MISRA AND FRANCESCO DELL’ISOLA
more clear the description of king post pantographic lattices. The connections
between Figures 3 and 9 is now more explicit.
(2) Does the reordering of the displacement vector d impact the solution methodol-
ogy for the nonlinear problem set in Eq. (2.3)? The incorporation of kinematic
constraints require some more explanations.
(R2) The reordering of the displacement vector does not impact the solution but it in-
<U+FB02>uences, strongly, the computational cost since it a<U+FB00>ects the band of the sti<U+FB00>ness
matrix. Variables are ordered in order to minimise the band. Kinematical con-
straints are easy to consider for the cases studied since no further constraints must
be imposed for example by means of the Lagrangian multiplier. Free displacement
variables are unknown whereas constrained variables must be treated as known
during the evolution of the equilibrium path.
(3) Could periodicity conditions for the unit cell shown in Fig. 9 be implemented?
(R3) Yes, could be implemented in order to save computing time. As elementary contri-
bution could be considered that of the unit cell instead that of the rod. However
this is not implemented in the current algorithm but will be considered in the future
works.
(4) The occurrence of a transition from a soft to a sti<U+FB00> response could be the sign of
mechanical instabilities: is it tested in the numerical solution procedure?
(R4) The used algorithm was initially developed to overcame mechanical instabilities
and it is able to get around this kind of problems.
(5) The colors in Fig. 11 are di<U+FB03>cult to distinguish so the <U+FB01>gure shall be enlarged.
(R5) The <U+FB01>gure was enlarged to make it more readable.
(6) In addition to the local strain and energy distribution shown in Fig. 14, it shall be
interesting to add the global responses for the three structures, so one could then
clearly see the bene<U+FB01>ts of enriching the initial pantographic network with the king
post unit.
(R6) We agree with the reference suggestion but enriching Figs. 14, 15 and 16 make
them much less readable. However, the contribution of pantographic rods, king
post and auxiliary rods was extensively studied for the unit cell.
(7) The authors shall sustain the notion of critical extension and bending supporting
the phase transition (from soft to sti<U+FB00>) by an analysis of the internal deformation
mechanisms: what mechanisms are responsible for the observed transition?
(R7) The following remark was added to the text: Pantographic structures are charac-
terised at local level by the existence of <U+FB02>oppy modes. More precisely by defor-
mations (in<U+FB01>nitesimals and large) corresponding to vanishing deformation energy.
The manifold of <U+FB02>oppy modes has a boundary; beyond some thresholds the panto-
graphic sheet locally becomes a standard plate. This transition transforms a soft
material into a sti<U+FB00> material. When many cells undergo this transition then a global
sti<U+FB00>ening occurs (typically exponentially) and the specimen can be modelled as a
<U+FB01>rst gradient material, for what concerns in plane gradient of displacements. The
regions of soft second gradient behaviour and those of sti<U+FB00> <U+FB01>rst gradient ones are
KING POST TRUSS AS A MOTIF FOR INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF (META)MATERIAL 3
separated by boundary layers where a large gradient of bending and/or elongation
occurs.
(8) The comparison done in Fig. 18 needs more comments.
R8) Further comments are reported in the next point.
(9) Could the macro-scale behaviour be described by a mere <U+FB01>rst gradient continuum,
and if not, what reasons support the development of a second-gradient e<U+FB00>ective
model? Could <U+FB01>rst gradient model be su<U+FB03>cient for certain deformation modes
only?
R9) The following sentence was added: The macro-scale behaviour of presented meta-
material cannot be described without second gradient deformation energy. Indeed
the bending energy of pantographic elements, which in the presented microstruc-
ture is concentrated in the king post elements , is unavoidably related to direc-
tional second derivatives of displacement and, as it is shown in the present paper,
the amount of deformation energy in such a bending mode is not negligible. On
the other hand when using only <U+FB01>rst gradient energies some ill-posedness prob-
lems arise: indeed without second gradient energy any sharp jump of <U+FB01>rst gradient
deformation can occur without energy and therefore invite possible solutions may
arise, involving many di<U+FB00>erent regions showing di<U+FB00>erent deformation states. For
more details see [1].
References
C. Pideri and P. Seppecher. A homogenization result for elastic material reinforced periodically with
high rigidity elastic fibres. Comptes Rendus de l’Academie des Sciences, Series IIB Mechanics Physics
Chemistry Astronomy, 8(324):475–481, 1997.
Society Open
