Surface drag reduction and flow separation control in
pelagic vertebrates, with implications for interpreting scale
morphologies in fossil taxa
Colin Palmer, Mark T. Young
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140163.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140163
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st resubmission date: 14 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd resubmission date: 11 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 15 December 2014
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140163.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Johan Lindgren)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript deals with potential hydrodynamic aspects of dermal appendages, particular
placoid scales of sharks, and their possible implications for drag reduction in mosasauroid
lizards. Overall, the manuscript comprises a fairly well written review (although I lack
explanatory images and it includes numerous quotations), and it shows how much there is still to
be learned about drag reduction, even in extant animals. Below, please find listed some points
that will hopefully improve the study:
1. Mosasaurs are secondarily aquatic lizards that were around for about 32 million years during
the latter half of the Cretaceous. During their relatively brief geological existence, they increased
enormously in size, developed fins and a hypocercal tail fluke, as well as an overall streamlined
body (i.e., a drag reducing shape; Fish 1998). Even though our knowledge when it comes to the
dermal cover of mosasauroids is limited due to a general lack of preserved integumentary
structures, the evidence that is out there still suggests that the body scales gradually became
proportionally smaller (please note that Palmer & Young confuse scale length with riblet spacing
at some places in the current version of the manuscript) as mosasaurs themselves grew larger (for
instance, in the roughly 6.5 m long mosasaurine Plotosaurus the body scales are about 2 mm
long; i.e., roughly the same length as in a 20–30 cm long terrestrial lizard. Additionally, a new
Maastrichtian mosasaur specimen possesses scales that, in places, are no more than 0.5 mm in
diameter). Obviously, we do not know why the scales were smaller in derived mosasaurs than in
more basal forms, but it is reasonable to assume that it may have had something to do with their
obligate aquatic existence. Assuming that the ridged structures in Plotosaurus are indeed keels
(and not an erroneous interpretation/artefact of preservation), then the distance between each
‘keel’ is about 0.3 mm; i.e., a spacing approaching that of the riblets on the placoid scales of, e.g.,
the tiger shark (cf. Bechert et al., 2000); however, if this condition has anything to due with drag
reduction has yet to be determined. In any event, given that mosasauroids gradually transformed
from landlubbers to leviathans, it is perhaps not entirely justified to compare their scales with
dermal denticles in the highly derived great white shark.
2. There is another potentially important function of keeled scales mentioned by Lindgren et al.
(2009) and resurrected by Lindgren et al. (2014) that is overlooked in the current version of the
text; i.e., to provide a dull and non-reflective surface (a condition that is similar to what is found
in many extant snakes). Although speculative, a non-reflective surface is in line with the inferred
(partial) melanic colouration of certain mosasaurs as it decreases reflectance and hence may be
beneficial for crypsis as well as for thermoregulation (Lindgren et al., 2014).
3. The authors propose that the keeled scales in mosasaurs might have reduced pressure drag and
enhanced manoeuvrability. In this context, it is interesting to note that Platecarpus (the only
mosasaur for which almost the entire dermal cover is known; see Lindgren et al., 2010) has keel-
less scales. Nonetheless, its body proportions and relatively large paddles suggest that it was
highly manoeuvrable (Russell, 1967). Perhaps this is an area Palmer & Young could explore
further (particularly since the closely related Ectenosaurus has keeled scales; see Lindgren et al.,
2011)?
With that being said, I think that there is room for some improvements. As currently written, the
text more-or-less comprises a mini review (with many quotations), highlighting important yet
disparate conclusions drawn by different researchers dealing with potential drag reducing
capabilities of placoid scales. In the light of a new publication reviewing principles of
hydrodynamics by Fletcher et al. (2014), it would be desirable if the authors could perhaps
expand the current study, preferably adding some experiments of their own, in order to bring the
field forward (for instance, albeit patchy, the skin in Ectenosaurus is excellently preserved in a
‘semi-3D’ state). Perhaps they could also include a discussion on drag reducing integumentary
structures in bony fishes and whales?
3
Finally, please note that it should be Pontosaurus kornhuberi, not Plotosaurus kornhuberi on
page 9, line 21.
Sincerely,
Johan Lindgren
References
Bechert, D.W., Bruse, M. & Hage, W. 2000: Experiments with three-dimensional riblets as an
idealized model of shark skin. Experiments in Fluids 28, 403–412.
Fish, F.E. 1998: Imaginative solutions by marine organisms for drag reduction. In
Proceedings of the International Symposium on Seawater Drag Reduction. Newport,
Rhode Island, 443–450.
Fletcher, T., Altringham, J., Peakall, J., Wignall, P. & Dorrell, R. 2014: Hydrodynamics of
fossil fishes. Proceedings of the Royal Society, Biological Sciences 281, 20140703.
Lindgren, J., Alwmark, C., Caldwell, M.W. & Fiorillo, A.R. 2009: Skin of the Cretaceous mosasaur
Plotosaurus: implications for aquatic adaptations in giant marine reptiles. Biology Letters 5, 528–
531.
Lindgren, J., Caldwell, M.W., Konishi, T. & Chiappe, L.M. 2010: Convergent evolution in aquatic
tetrapods: insights from an exceptional fossil mosasaur. PLoS ONE
5, e11998. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011998.
Lindgren, J., Everhart, M.J. & Caldwell, M.W. 2011: Three-dimensionally preserved
integument reveals hydrodynamic adaptations in the extinct marine lizard Ectenosaurus
(Reptilia, Mosasauridae). PLoS ONE 6, e27343. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027343.
Lindgren, J., Sjövall, P., Carney, R.M., Uvdal, P., Gren, J.A., Dyke, G., Schultz, B.P.,
Shawkey, M.D., Barnes, K.R. & Polcyn, M.J. 2014: Skin pigmentation provides
evidence of convergent melanism in extinct marine reptiles. Nature 506, 484–488.
Russell, D.A. 1967: Systematics and morphology of American mosasaurs (Reptilia, Sauria).
Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University, Bulletin 23, 1–241.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Michael Everhart)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
4
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Gentlemen,
I think your manuscript is well done and a useful contribution to the current discussion of drag
reduction in marine reptiles. My only concern is including the paper (#19 - Lindgren et al. 2011)
as supporting the contention that mosasaur scales were useful in reducing drag. That paper
specifically discussed the underlying integument... and only referred to the role of the scales by
citation. Sharks were mentioned only in comparison to the integument.
See the attached for a couple of minor issues.
Otherwise, good job. I'm pleased to see the data regarding size and the discussion.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140163)
31-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Palmer,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Surface drag reduction and flow separation control in
pelagic vertebrates, with implications for interpreting scale morphologies in fossil taxa.") has now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140163.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140163.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Johan Lindgren)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is a much improved version of the manuscript, and I only have a few minor comments for
the authors to address. Below, please find my comments listed as they appear in the text:
1. Page 6, line 2: Says ‘sharkskin’ but should be ‘shark skin’
2. Page 8, lines 16, 17: Is it really relevant to include Platecarpus here given that its body scales
lack keels?
3. Page 9, lines 3–6: Perhaps add that the ridge spacing in Plotosaurus is comparable to that of the
modern tiger shark (although there is indeed a high probability that the ridges in Plotosaurus are
either artefacts of preservation or supportive sculpturing…).
4. Page 9, last line: Here, it may be relevant to add that the scales in mosasaurs appear to become
smaller in more derived/better aquatically-adapted forms (a condition that perhaps is
comparable to the loss of osteoderms in thalattosuchians?).
5. Page 10, line 7: I would suggest omitting 'counter-shading' from the sentence 'Other
adaptations, from thermoregulation to...' because we do not state that crypsis includes counter-
shading.
Sincerely,
Johan Lindgren
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140163.R1)
04-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Palmer
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140163.R1
entitled "Surface drag reduction and flow separation control in pelagic vertebrates, with
implications for interpreting scale morphologies in fossil taxa." has been accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee
suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". All main documents should
include the following sections before the references.
• Ethics statement - where relevant
• Data accessibility statement - where relevant
• Competing interests statement
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
7
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Dr Aime,
We are thrilled by the positive comments from the two reviewers for our manuscript "Surface
drag reduction and flow separation control in pelagic vertebrates, with implications for
interpreting scale morphologies in fossil taxa" (RSOS-140163). Please find below a list of
changes that we have made in response to these reviews. Furthermore, we have attached a
track-changed version of the revised manuscript.
Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Colin Palmer and Mark Young
Reviewer: 1 (Johan Lingdren)
We have reviewed the labelled PDF from reviewer 1, and have made suggested change:
(1) : Mosasaurs are secondarily aquatic lizards that were around for about 32 million years
during the latter half of the Cretaceous. During their relatively brief geological existence,
they increased enormously in size, developed fins and a hypocercal tail fluke, as well as an
overall streamlined body (i.e., a drag reducing shape; Fish 1998). Even though our
knowledge when it comes to the dermal cover of mosasauroids is limited due to a general
lack of preserved integumentary structures, the evidence that is out there still suggests that
the body scales gradually became proportionally smaller (please note that Palmer & Young
confuse scale length with riblet spacing at some places in the current version of the
manuscript) as mosasaurs themselves grew larger (for instance, in the roughly 6.5 m long
mosasaurine Plotosaurus the body scales are about 2 mm long; i.e., roughly the same length
as in a 20–30 cm long terrestrial lizard. Additionally, a new Maastrichtian mosasaur
specimen possesses scales that, in places, are no more than 0.5 mm in diameter). Obviously,
we do not know why the scales were smaller in derived mosasaurs than in more basal forms,
but it is reasonable to assume that it may have had something to do with their obligate aquatic
existence. Assuming that the ridged structures in Plotosaurus are indeed keels (and not an
erroneous interpretation/artefact of preservation), then the distance between each ‘keel’ is
about 0.3 mm; i.e., a spacing approaching that of the riblets on the placoid scales of, e.g., the
tiger shark (cf. Bechert et al., 2000); however, if this condition has anything to due with drag
reduction has yet to be determined. In any event, given that mosasauroids gradually
transformed from landlubbers to leviathans, it is perhaps not entirely justified to compare
their scales with dermal denticles in the highly derived great white shark.
Response: We have now clarified section 5 (on mosasaurids) in regards to keel/riblet spacing
of mosasaurid scales.
The scale size of the new Maastrichtian mosasaurid sounds very interesting.
Hopefully it will be described soon.
The comparison between mosasaurids and large sharks (of which the Great White
Shark is one) was due to the hypothesis that presence and arragement of mosasaurid scale
keels reduced surface drag. The riblet spacing of some large sharks (including the Great
White) is within the range that has been shown through fluid dynamics to have been able to
reduce surface drag. Therefore, the comparison is justified. In this connection, it is worth
noting that the illustration in Figure 3 of Bechert et al., 2000 does show a ridge spacing of
0.3mm, but all the illustrations in Figure 1 (“fast sharks”) show much smaller values (0.04 -
0.05 mm Mako and Great hammerhead shark tail, 0.05mm Mako body and 0.09mm for the
body of a Galapgos shark. Figure 2 of the same paper indicates a ridge spacing of less than
0.1mm for a Great White shark.
We do not know if there is an error in the scale bar of Figure 3 or if for some reason Tiger
sharks are different from all other sharks, but the average ridge spacing of the majority of fast
sharks appears to be 0.1mm or less, which is directly comparable to other results.
(2) : There is another potentially important function of keeled scales mentioned by Lindgren
et al. (2009) and resurrected by Lindgren et al. (2014) that is overlooked in the current
version of the text; i.e., to provide a dull and non-reflective surface (a condition that is similar
to what is found in many extant snakes). Although speculative, a non-reflective surface is in
line with the inferred (partial) melanic colouration of certain mosasaurs as it decreases
reflectance and hence may be beneficial for crypsis as well as for thermoregulation (Lindgren
et al., 2014).
Response: In the conclusion we have expanded the section referring to other potential
hypotheses for the evolution of keeled scales in mosasaurids. The following sentence and
reference have been added:
Other adaptations, from thermoregulation to counter-shading crypsis, have also been posited
for the presence of keeled scales [18,47].
Lindgren J, Sjövall P, Carney RM, Uvdal P, Gren JA, Dyke G, Schultz BP, Shawkey
MD, Barnes KR, Polcyn MJ. 2014: Skin pigmentation provides evidence of convergent
melanism in extinct marine reptiles. Nature 506, 484–488.
(3) : The authors propose that the keeled scales in mosasaurs might have reduced pressure
drag and enhanced manoeuvrability. In this context, it is interesting to note that Platecarpus
(the only mosasaur for which almost the entire dermal cover is known; see Lindgren et al.,
2010) has keel-less scales. Nonetheless, its body proportions and relatively large paddles
suggest that it was highly manoeuvrable (Russell, 1967). Perhaps this is an area Palmer &
Young could explore further (particularly since the closely related Ectenosaurus has keeled
scales; see Lindgren et al., 2011)?
Response: Turbulence generation due to scale roughness (keels) could have been beneficial in
controlling flow separation. However, as we noted any scale morphology could cause this,
not necessarily a keel. Looking at Lingdren et al. (2010), it is unclear if the rims of the
Platecarpus scales are raised and have a slightly concave dorsal surface (in particular see
Figure 5), or if this is due to post-mortem deformation. If the variation in relief along the
scale is real, it could generate turbulence.
Any discussion on these potential morphologies would be best left to individuals who
can study the relevant mosasaurid specimens first-hand, in a comparative manner. But it is a
question that is very interesting. All we suggested was that the only possible drag related
functional significance of keel was to create roughness and thus increase frictional drag and
potentially influence flow separation. It may be that this effect was actually a very small, and
possibly insignificant and that the keels had some other origin and function.
(4) : With that being said, I think that there is room for some improvements. As currently
written, the text more-or-less comprises a mini review (with many quotations), highlighting
important yet disparate conclusions drawn by different researchers dealing with potential
drag reducing capabilities of placoid scales. In the light of a new publication reviewing
principles of hydrodynamics by Fletcher et al. (2014), it would be desirable if the authors
could perhaps expand the current study, preferably adding some experiments of their own, in
order to bring the field forward (for instance, albeit patchy, the skin in Ectenosaurus is
excellently preserved in a ‘semi-3D’ state). Perhaps they could also include a discussion on
drag reducing integumentary structures in bony fishes and whales?
Response: The manuscript was intended to be a review of what is known about drag
reduction surface morphologies in a well studied system (shark riblets), and to compare that
to scaled fossil taxa where surface drag reduction has been hypothesised. Our intention was
to bring the field forward by highlighting the various viewpoints from neontological and
experimental researchers, and to caution positing certain biomechanical functions for extinct
taxa. In regards to reduction of surface drag, riblet/keel spacing needs to be 0.1mm or less.
A next step would be biomechanical modelling of these different integumentary
structures. The possibility of studying Ectenosaurus is something we will give consideration
to. However, that is beyond the scope of the current manuscript.
Reviewer: 2
We have reviewed the labelled PDF from reviewer 2, and have made suggested changes
except one: "channeling?". We have kept the spelling as: channelling.
For reviewer 2's comment about reference 19, our view is that in [19] the referral to [18] is
used to support the assertion that the ribbed scales of FHSM VP-401 were a frictional drag
reducing adaptation, a view that we refute. To remove reference to [19] at this point in the
paper would make our argument less easy to follow.
Society Open
