The evolution of giant flightless birds and novel
phylogenetic relationships for extinct fowl (Aves,
Galloanseres)
Trevor H. Worthy, Federico J. Degrange, Warren D. Handley and Michael S. Y. Lee
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170975.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170975
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170975.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an important paper as it clarifies the phylogenetic placement of multiple enigmatic fossil
birds, and not just any fossil birds but very large flightless ones that lived (mostly) on the
southern continents. In addition, the authors have important things to say about some other
fossil groups, particularly the lithornithids and the latest Cretaceous Vegavis. Thus, this paper
will be widely read by students of avian evolution and southern continental biogeography.
There is a general feeling in many quarters that morphology has little to say about avian
relationships in the face of ever-increasing molecular data. It is said that molecular data are
pointing the way and that morphological data have less and less to say and should defer
whenever there is conflict. That is also, seemingly, the sense of this paper. Yet, if anything has
come of this long-standing dialogue it is that molecules have also often been wrong and that the
phylogenetic problems where conflict exists among data sets have traditionally been difficult.
I am not against backbone constraints, but in this case I think that the way in which this is
presented adds complexity to the presentation and to an extent obscures the real data of the
paper--the morphological characters. Instead of stating outright in multiple places that
morphological data don't do a good job at resolving higher relationships relative to molecules
(which sort of implies they may not be good in placing fossils), let the morphological data speak
for themselves. Which is why I think the unconstrained parsimony tree should be the first tree
discussed in the main text, not buried in the supplementary. To me, this is especially important
given that the vast majority of the data are from a previous paper that did not sample many of
the taxa included in this paper. I see a potential issue with this new matrix growing by 11 taxa,
yet it only grew by 5 characters (plus some recoding), so there would be an expectation of less
resolution.
This is to say that in the main text I would like to see a bit more transparency regarding the
morphological data themselves, rather than sticking those analyses in supplementary. It is clear
from multiple places in the discussion that the morphology is giving results with which they
disagree (especially p. 8). If that is the case, readers might want to know how those differences
influence the placement of fossil taxa, if they do. It might not matter at all for 95% of their paper
that ratite relationships don't come out the way they want, a reader will want to know (1) what
characters supported the morphological result, and (2) how they affected the placement of fossil
taxa. There is a bit about this, but not a lot. And if the results of morphology are "artefactual" (p.
9), what does this say about their results for the fossils?
I am not a fan of a "full backbone" as it can obscure, or completely mislead, clade character
support and optimizations. There is a suggestion that this indeed is happening in this paper.
Thus, looking at their SI Fig 1 (their parsimony solution), I am somewhat dumbfounded at their
results as they suggest to me that they did not include characters in the literature that clearly
bring Galloanseres together (and thus separate Neoaves apart), and bring lithornithids with
ratites. I only see this figure/result discussed on pages 8, 9, 10, and very inadequately there. I
have to believe their results are because of the way they assembled the data matrix (above). They
should discuss this as multiple papers, going back years, have demonstrated characters that unite
Galloanseres.
I suggest they add a symbol to the figures 1 and 2 indicating which nodes were fixed by the
molecular backbone. I know that the tree is in a supplementary nexus file, but it just makes it
easier for the reader.
There is another problem with SI Fig. 1, namely the numbers on the branches. They say this is a
consensus of 15 most parsimonious trees, yet what are these numbers on the branches? How can
3
they be bootstrap support >50%? If these numbers indicate some sort of support, then they have
extremely little information for any relationship, including most of the fossils. Usually in
consensus trees you get a measure of how many trees support a given node. Their numbers
(majority-rule consensus??) make no sense in that regard either.
I find their morphological optimizations and inferences to be important. I was perplexed that
they did not use outgroup analysis, outside crown birds, which pretty clearly argues the basal
node of the crown was flighted, not "probably flighted." One can't get accurate optimizations in a
crown, especially the early branches of it, without having taxa outside the crown. I have never
heard anyone say that the crown might have a 50% or more flighted probability. And I fail to see
how all ratite lineage nodes are "probably flightless" with the tree of Fig. 1. And that means
tinamous regained flight, which is not discussed on p. 13 (that is a profound conclusion). The
optimizations within Neoaves are compromised due to sampling but within palaeognaths, given
the molecular tree and their placement of lithornithids as their sister, the optimizations within
palaeognaths are much clearer than implied by their figure.
Their "timetree". A few more word about their timetree might be in order. Based as it is on
morphology it has some spurious conclusions (crown-age of ratites) and the role of fossils in this
is not explained sufficiently. On page 4, "The young (>70 Ma) age of crown-group palaeognaths,
and their interrelationships..." Do they mean less than 70 Myr? And here they say ancestral
lineages of ratites were flighted but that is not the optimization of Fig. 1.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached. (Appendix A)
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170975)
31-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Worthy
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170975 entitled
"The evolution of giant flightless birds and novel phylogenetic relationships for extinct fowl
(Aves, Galloanseres)" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170975
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
5
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
6
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The problem being addressed here is of clear interest and importance. The analyses are generally
sensible and explained clearly, but there are some aspects that might require further justification
or discussion. If those minor revisions can be made (see below), I would be happy to recommend
publication of this manuscript for Royal Society Open Science.
The reviewers raise two main issues which I am in agreement with (aside from a range of smaller
issues). Firstly is the use of a backbone constraint tree. I understand why it has been applied in
this instance, but it needs more explicit justification. The unconstrained results need to be
presented in the main manuscript before the discussion of the constrained results. If those
unconstrained results are unsatisfactory, then it needs to be made clear as to why. There are a
number of occasions in this manuscript where results are described as unsatisfactory or insensible
which hints at some preconceived idea of what the relationships should be, and also to the
inherent superiority of molecular data - both are dangerous. Excluding the ratites from the
presented parsimony analysis requires careful justification beyond simply the unusual or
unpalatable results derived when they are included. Caution is necessary here because this
approach calls into question the utility of any morphological data at all. I also agree with one of
the reviewers that the tree figures should inlcude in some way the underlying backbone
constraint for the reader to critically visualise. Furthermore, how much of the molecular derived
relationships are used in a backbone is relevant i.e. all extant taxa or some subset of particularly
'reliable' relationships.
Secondly, the manuscript would greatly benefit from a conclusions section to draw together the
main narratives.
Minor points:
It is implied throughout that missing data could be a causal explanation for weird or poorly
resolved relationships. The nature of the data that IS coded is far more important than the
amount of data that is missing. There is a long history of simulation studies relevant in this
context.
The beginning of the discussion needs reframing because many of the clades discussed were
already dictated by the molecular backbone constraint. The long character list in the discussion
also needs editing to make it more readable and relevant.
7
Please also seen the minor comments from both reviewers.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an important paper as it clarifies the phylogenetic placement of multiple enigmatic fossil
birds, and not just any fossil birds but very large flightless ones that lived (mostly) on the
southern continents. In addition, the authors have important things to say about some other fossil
groups, particularly the lithornithids and the latest Cretaceous Vegavis. Thus, this paper will be
widely read by students of avian evolution and southern continental biogeography.
There is a general feeling in many quarters that morphology has little to say about avian
relationships in the face of ever-increasing molecular data. It is said that molecular data are
pointing the way and that morphological data have less and less to say and should defer
whenever there is conflict. That is also, seemingly, the sense of this paper. Yet, if anything has
come of this long-standing dialogue it is that molecules have also often been wrong and that the
phylogenetic problems where conflict exists among data sets have traditionally been difficult.
I am not against backbone constraints, but in this case I think that the way in which this is
presented adds complexity to the presentation and to an extent obscures the real data of the
paper--the morphological characters. Instead of stating outright in multiple places that
morphological data don't do a good job at resolving higher relationships relative to molecules
(which sort of implies they may not be good in placing fossils), let the morphological data speak
for themselves. Which is why I think the unconstrained parsimony tree should be the first tree
discussed in the main text, not buried in the supplementary. To me, this is especially important
given that the vast majority of the data are from a previous paper that did not sample many of
the taxa included in this paper. I see a potential issue with this new matrix growing by 11 taxa,
yet it only grew by 5 characters (plus some recoding), so there would be an expectation of less
resolution.
This is to say that in the main text I would like to see a bit more transparency regarding the
morphological data themselves, rather than sticking those analyses in supplementary. It is clear
from multiple places in the discussion that the morphology is giving results with which they
disagree (especially p. 8). If that is the case, readers might want to know how those differences
influence the placement of fossil taxa, if they do. It might not matter at all for 95% of their paper
that ratite relationships don't come out the way they want, a reader will want to know (1) what
characters supported the morphological result, and (2) how they affected the placement of fossil
taxa. There is a bit about this, but not a lot. And if the results of morphology are "artefactual" (p.
9), what does this say about their results for the fossils?
I am not a fan of a "full backbone" as it can obscure, or completely mislead, clade character
support and optimizations. There is a suggestion that this indeed is happening in this paper.
Thus, looking at their SI Fig 1 (their parsimony solution), I am somewhat dumbfounded at their
results as they suggest to me that they did not include characters in the literature that clearly
bring Galloanseres together (and thus separate Neoaves apart), and bring lithornithids with
ratites. I only see this figure/result discussed on pages 8, 9, 10, and very inadequately there. I
have to believe their results are because of the way they assembled the data matrix (above). They
should discuss this as multiple papers, going back years, have demonstrated characters that unite
Galloanseres.
I suggest they add a symbol to the figures 1 and 2 indicating which nodes were fixed by the
molecular backbone. I know that the tree is in a supplementary nexus file, but it just makes it
easier for the reader.
There is another problem with SI Fig. 1, namely the numbers on the branches. They say this is a
8
consensus of 15 most parsimonious trees, yet what are these numbers on the branches? How can
they be bootstrap support >50%? If these numbers indicate some sort of support, then they have
extremely little information for any relationship, including most of the fossils. Usually in
consensus trees you get a measure of how many trees support a given node. Their numbers
(majority-rule consensus??) make no sense in that regard either.
I find their morphological optimizations and inferences to be important. I was perplexed that
they did not use outgroup analysis, outside crown birds, which pretty clearly argues the basal
node of the crown was flighted, not "probably flighted." One can't get accurate optimizations in a
crown, especially the early branches of it, without having taxa outside the crown. I have never
heard anyone say that the crown might have a 50% or more flighted probability. And I fail to see
how all ratite lineage nodes are "probably flightless" with the tree of Fig. 1. And that means
tinamous regained flight, which is not discussed on p. 13 (that is a profound conclusion). The
optimizations within Neoaves are compromised due to sampling but within palaeognaths, given
the molecular tree and their placement of lithornithids as their sister, the optimizations within
palaeognaths are much clearer than implied by their figure.
Their "timetree". A few more word about their timetree might be in order. Based as it is on
morphology it has some spurious conclusions (crown-age of ratites) and the role of fossils in this
is not explained sufficiently. On page 4, "The young (>70 Ma) age of crown-group palaeognaths,
and their interrelationships..." Do they mean less than 70 Myr? And here they say ancestral
lineages of ratites were flighted but that is not the optimization of Fig. 1.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170975)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170975.R1)
08-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Worthy,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The evolution of giant flightless birds
and novel phylogenetic relationships for extinct fowl (Aves, Galloanseres)" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
9
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
***************************
pendix A
s paper investigates the affinities and evolution of extinct giant flightless birds. They address this
h a broad taxon set including both extinct and extant taxa and using parsimony and Bayesian
hods. The authors include in their analyses fossil giant flightless birds from across Aves with a
us on addressing affinities within Galloanseres. In brief, their analyses recover Lithornidae as
m palaeognaths, a late Cretaceous Gondwanan origin for Galloanseres, and they also recognise a
clade (Gastornithiformes) within Galloanseres. In addition, the Cretaceous Vegavis, is excluded
m crown Anseriformes. This result has significant implications for molecular calibration points
vian phylogenies. They also find that the presbyornithids to be sister to Anatoidea while
ntornis is a member of Cariamiformes, not a galloensere. The authors also carry out ancestral
e reconstructions which show that diet is highly constrained by phylogeny.
s paper substantially extends a previous data matrix with the addition of new characters and new
a making it the comprehensive analysis of giant flightless birds to date. The authors include
er, more basal, fossil birds as these have the potential to influence the outcome of the
logenetic analyses. The authors employ both parsimony and Bayesian methods in their analyses.
h methods recover some relationships that the authors suggest are likely to be artefactual but
rall the main findings are consistent.
hough I understand why the authors chose to include taxa from outwith the primary group of
rest (Galloanseres) I did find that this reduced the clarity and focus of the manuscript as a whole
the manuscript would benefit from some tightening up and clarifying throughout to avoid the
n findings being lost in the wider details. This is also true for the trait analyses, there is a lot of
rmation contained within this manuscript and it’s hard at times to keep track of all the findings.
ink that the manuscript would benefit from the inclusion of a final conclusions section that sums
the findings and wider implications as, again, I feel that the main findings become a little lost
erwise.
erall, I enjoyed reading this paper, the analyses are appropriate and the conclusions justified. The
res are attractive, informative and clear (though see comments below). This work contributes
data to the field and has potentially significant implications for the broader field.
ailed comments:
2, ln 19: “...four clades each inferred to have a Gondwanan origin in the Cretaceous.”
uming that these four clades within Galloanseres are those stated in the Discussion (pg. 10, ln
, I’m not convinced that Galliformes do have a Cretaceous origin. Looking at the figures the
r bar at the base of Galliformes extends back to ~55 Ma. Do the authors mean that the split
ween the clades occurs in the Cretaceous?
8, ln 34: “...removing the confounding ratite taxa...”
ich ones are these?
8 (Ancestral State Reconstructions)
Ancestral State Reconstructions for diet, flight and body mass were carried out on both trees.
ile diet is shown to be phylogenetically constrained in both analyses the authors find some
blematic results for the reconstructions of flight ability and body mass. For example, in the
esian phylogeny the nodes between crown palaeognaths and crown galliforms are reconstructed
robably flightless, while in the parsimony phylogeny basal avian nodes are reconstructed as
htless and larger than in the Bayesian analyses if ratites are included in the analysis. For the
simony analysis the authors used parsimony, implemented in Mesquite, to carry out the
cestral State Reconstructions. I would be interested to see whether applying Bayesian stochastic
racter mapping or Maximum Likelihood methods to the parsimony tree would help to resolve
of these issues.
neral comments:
oughout the manuscript the findings are described variously as “robust” or “robustly supported”.
ould be useful to quantify this, in the results section at least (ie. state the bootstrap support etc),
t’s not clear why the results are interpreted as robust.
use of a red/green colour scale in the figures is not generally recommended as it is likely to
ve problematic for readers with red-green colour blindness. I would suggest changing to red/blue
void this issue.
Appendix B
8 Sept 2017
Dear Alice Power and Jon Blundy,
We are pleased that the editors found our paper to be of interest and provisionally accepted it. We
have revised the manuscript to address the issues raised by the editor and reviewers, and our
responses to specific points are highlighted below. But to summarize, we have pulled the results out
of the supplementary information and inserted them back in the main document and done so in a
logical order that reveals why we moved on to Analysis 2, then 3, etc. We slightly altered that former
SI text in the move to emphasize rationales as reviewers requested. We believe this address the
main issues raised. All changes to the document are in Trackchanges.
We have left a figure with the figure caption in the document but these are so it is doubly clear
which figure is which. The figures to use are uploaded separately.
With respect of the various statements noted below:
Ethics Statemnet: We do not require an ethics statement. All the other dot points below are
addressed, but we brought Authors contributions and Competing interests statements to in front of
Acknowledgments.
• Data accessibility
• Competing interests
• Authors’ contributions
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The problem being addressed here is of clear interest and importance. The analyses are generally
sensible and explained clearly, but there are some aspects that might require further justification or
discussion. If those minor revisions can be made (see below), I would be happy to recommend
publication of this manuscript for Royal Society Open Science.
We thank the editors for this opportunity and have revised the manuscript to address the issues
raised. Below, as highlighted we address each of the issues raised by the editors and reviewers.
The reviewers raise two main issues which I am in agreement with (aside from a range of smaller
issues). Firstly is the use of a backbone constraint tree. I understand why it has been applied in this
instance, but it needs more explicit justification. The unconstrained results need to be presented in
the main manuscript before the discussion of the constrained results. If those unconstrained results
are unsatisfactory, then it needs to be made clear as to why. There are a number of occasions in this
manuscript where results are described as unsatisfactory or insensible which hints at some
preconceived idea of what the relationships should be, and also to the inherent superiority of
molecular data - both are dangerous. Excluding the ratites from the presented parsimony analysis
requires careful justification beyond simply the unusual or unpalatable results derived when they are
included. Caution is necessary here because this approach calls into question the utility of any
morphological data at all. I also agree with one of the reviewers that the tree figures should inlcude
in some way the underlying backbone constraint for the reader to critically visualise. Furthermore,
how much of the molecular derived relationships are used in a backbone is relevant i.e. all extant
taxa or some subset of particularly 'reliable' relationships.
We have rearranged the submission, bringing the analyses previously presented in the
Supplementary Information into the main text. These are presented in the order they were done and
include justification for each successive analysis, points that were likely overlooked in the SI before.
Now, we believe the logical progression of the analyses leads the reader through the process more
clearly and that the rationale for each is obvious. Our two preferred analyses are presented last, but
as they are the more informative figures, this should be obvious to the reader.
Secondly, the manuscript would greatly benefit from a conclusions section to draw together the
main narratives.
We have added a conclusions section
Minor points:
It is implied throughout that missing data could be a causal explanation for weird or poorly resolved
relationships. The nature of the data that IS coded is far more important than the amount of data
that is missing. There is a long history of simulation studies relevant in this context.
While we agree that missing data is not necessarily problematic, in some of the taxa analysed in this
project, e.g. Brontornis with 73% missing data, there are serious issues as our taxon exclusion
experiments now presented in the main text, demonstrate. Thus we believe our statements are
justified, and that in the cases identified, they have an effect that cannot be ignored.
The beginning of the discussion needs reframing because many of the clades discussed were already
dictated by the molecular backbone constraint. The long character list in the discussion also needs
editing to make it more readable and relevant.
We have written a new introductory paragraph in the discussion setting the scene for the further
discussion. We think the character list concerning relationships in Gastornis species (only 153 words)
is important and only lists the key ones to demonstrate differences between the two species. It is
important to identify these features for others to note and assess rather than just assuming these
two species are similar as is currently the case.
Please also seen the minor comments from both reviewers.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an important paper as it clarifies the phylogenetic placement of multiple enigmatic fossil
birds, and not just any fossil birds but very large flightless ones that lived (mostly) on the southern
continents. In addition, the authors have important things to say about some other fossil groups,
particularly the lithornithids and the latest Cretaceous Vegavis. Thus, this paper will be widely read
by students of avian evolution and southern continental biogeography.
There is a general feeling in many quarters that morphology has little to say about avian
relationships in the face of ever-increasing molecular data. It is said that molecular data are pointing
the way and that morphological data have less and less to say and should defer whenever there is
conflict. That is also, seemingly, the sense of this paper. Yet, if anything has come of this long-
standing dialogue it is that molecules have also often been wrong and that the phylogenetic
problems where conflict exists among data sets have traditionally been difficult.
We agree that morphology is important, indeed the only option for palaeontology, and added a
paper (Lee and Palci) that extols such. But we also think that given the proven issues with homoplasy
in modern birds, as shown by molecular data, it would be remiss to assume morphology alone will
reveal the true evolutionary history, therefore we have taken the approach of starting with
morphology, identifying the issues with respect homoplasy in this datset, then explored options for
overcoming it.
I am not against backbone constraints, but in this case I think that the way in which this is presented
adds complexity to the presentation and to an extent obscures the real data of the paper--the
morphological characters. Instead of stating outright in multiple places that morphological data
don't do a good job at resolving higher relationships relative to molecules (which sort of implies they
may not be good in placing fossils), let the morphological data speak for themselves. Which is why I
think the unconstrained parsimony tree should be the first tree discussed in the main text, not
buried in the supplementary. To me, this is especially important given that the vast majority of the
data are from a previous paper that did not sample many of the taxa included in this paper. I see a
potential issue with this new matrix growing by 11 taxa, yet it only grew by 5 characters (plus some
recoding), so there would be an expectation of less resolution.
This is to say that in the main text I would like to see a bit more transparency regarding the
morphological data themselves, rather than sticking those analyses in supplementary. It is clear
from multiple places in the discussion that the morphology is giving results with which they disagree
(especially p. 8). If that is the case, readers might want to know how those differences influence the
placement of fossil taxa, if they do. It might not matter at all for 95% of their paper that ratite
relationships don't come out the way they want, a reader will want to know (1) what characters
supported the morphological result, and (2) how they affected the placement of fossil taxa. There is
a bit about this, but not a lot. And if the results of morphology are "artefactual" (p. 9), what does
this say about their results for the fossils?
I am not a fan of a "full backbone" as it can obscure, or completely mislead, clade character support
and optimizations. There is a suggestion that this indeed is happening in this paper. Thus, looking at
their SI Fig 1 (their parsimony solution), I am somewhat dumbfounded at their results as they
suggest to me that they did not include characters in the literature that clearly bring Galloanseres
together (and thus separate Neoaves apart), and bring lithornithids with ratites. I only see this
figure/result discussed on pages 8, 9, 10, and very inadequately there. I have to believe their results
are because of the way they assembled the data matrix (above). They should discuss this as multiple
papers, going back years, have demonstrated characters that unite Galloanseres.
The above comments by Reviewer 1 relate mainly to how we have presented the data, which initially
was to make the format as short as possible. However, we acknowledge that this has led to a lack of
clarity of the rationale leading to the final preferred analyses. Thus we have rearranged the text, and
brought back from the Supplementary Information the results for all analyses leading to our
preferred ones. These texts are slightly modified so that the justification for each analysis is more
clear, and successively show that 1, raw data achieve heterodox results compared to molecular data;
2, that homoplasy relating to reduced pectoral girdle and wing elements explains most of the issue,
although other homoplasy relative to large size probably influences things as well; 3, that a
molecular backbone can replace character weighting so recovering relationships of extant taxa
consistent with most other data, and thereby allow the fossil taxa to be analysed in the context of a
phylogenetic framework that most likely approaches reality – which is our ultimate aim; 4, and that
missing data is a real issue that compromises perceived relationships for some taxa, eg Brontornis; 5,
that Bayesian methods employing tip-dating methods result in more believable evolutionary
scenarios for the fossil galloanseres than parsimony analyses. With respect of the use of a molecular
backbone versus a total evidence approach – we prefer the former as it is simpler, but note that if
we added say 20,000 bases of molecular data from several genes, these 20,000+ characters will far
outweigh the 290 morpho-characters, so the molecular tree dominates anyway, and the effect is the
same – the fossil taxa associate into a tree constrained by molecular data as morpho data dictate.
I suggest they add a symbol to the figures 1 and 2 indicating which nodes were fixed by the
molecular backbone. I know that the tree is in a supplementary nexus file, but it just makes it easier
for the reader.
The molecular backbone enforces all nodes uniting two or more extant taxa (inclusive of Dinornis)
We have added a sentence to the Methodology under the heading Molecular Backbone making this
clear as follows: “The interspecific and higher relationships of all extant species and Dinornis
robustus were enforced with this backbone constraint, so the only nodes not constrained in analyses
employing it are those relating to fossil taxa.” This is reiterated at the start of the Discussion so folk
whom may have skipped the methods do not miss out.
There is another problem with SI Fig. 1, namely the numbers on the branches. They say this is a
consensus of 15 most parsimonious trees, yet what are these numbers on the branches? How can
they be bootstrap support >50%? If these numbers indicate some sort of support, then they have
extremely little information for any relationship, including most of the fossils. Usually in consensus
trees you get a measure of how many trees support a given node. Their numbers (majority-rule
consensus??) make no sense in that regard either.
The numbers are Bootstrap support values, it is just that we overlooked removing ‘>50%’ in the
caption when it was decided to show all values, not just those greater than 50% support .
I find their morphological optimizations and inferences to be important. I was perplexed that they
did not use outgroup analysis, outside crown birds, which pretty clearly argues the basal node of the
crown was flighted, not "probably flighted." One can't get accurate optimizations in a crown,
especially the early branches of it, without having taxa outside the crown. I have never heard
anyone say that the crown might have a 50% or more flighted probability. And I fail to see how all
ratite lineage nodes are "probably flightless" with the tree of Fig. 1. And that means tinamous
regained flight, which is not discussed on p. 13 (that is a profound conclusion). The optimizations
within Neoaves are compromised due to sampling but within palaeognaths, given the molecular tree
and their placement of lithornithids as their sister, the optimizations within palaeognaths are much
clearer than implied by their figure.
We chose to use palaeognaths as the outgroup and employed the lithornithids which are volant and
predictably by their age representative of the volant nature of the ancestor. The next nearest
outgroup to Neornithes are the Hesperornithiformes, which are specialised flightless, diving birds, so
they would not help reconstruct the ancestral neornithine as flighted. Flightless ancestral
palaeognaths are only recovered in the parsimony analyses which for the reasons given we think do
not reflect evolutionary history. Our preferred Bayesian analyses reconstructed the neornithine
ancestor as flighted. We have clarified the descriptions.
Their "timetree". A few more word about their timetree might be in order. Based as it is on
morphology it has some spurious conclusions (crown-age of ratites) and the role of fossils in this is
not explained sufficiently. On page 4, "The young (>70 Ma) age of crown-group palaeognaths, and
their interrelationships..." Do they mean less than 70 Myr? And here they say ancestral lineages of
ratites were flighted but that is not the optimization of Fig. 1.
Yes the crown age of palaeognaths should have said <70 Myr although <80 would be more inclusive.
the comments on page 4 were/are in the introduction and are summarizing the accepted wisdom
from other papers, so need no concur with the results of the present study, although in our
preferred analysis, they do.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached.
Detailed comments:
Pg. 2, ln 19: “...four clades each inferred to have a Gondwanan origin in the Cretaceous.”
Assuming that these four clades within Galloanseres are those stated in the Discussion (pg. 10, ln
31), I’m not convinced that Galliformes do have a Cretaceous origin. Looking at the figures the error
bar at the base of Galliformes extends back to ~55 Ma. Do the authors mean that the split between
the clades occurs in the Cretaceous?
We acknowledge that the diversification within Galliformes, one of the 4 galloansere clades we
identify, dates to a modal age of about 40 Ma, but the origin of the clade is when it diverged from its
sister taxon, identified by us as Gastornithiformes and at 70 ma. So we have modified the sentence
as follows:
“The Galloanseres comprise four clades each inferred to have a Gondwanan origin and to have
diverged from its sister taxon in the late Cretaceous.
Pg. 8, ln 34: “...removing the confounding ratite taxa...” Which ones are these?
All of them as all are independently derived from volant taxa. So we rewrite the sentence, now at
the end of paragraph 2 in section 2.4.2 as follows:
Also, because parsimony analyses robustly retrieved flightlessness as primitive for
palaeognaths (an inference likely erroneous as abundant molecular data shows that several
ratite lineages each derive from a volant ancestor [37, 39]), we repeated the analysis
removing the ratite taxa to preclude their flightless condition causing problems with the
optimisation of a flightless ancestor for neornithines.
Pg. 8 (Ancestral State Reconstructions)
The Ancestral State Reconstructions for diet, flight and body mass were carried out on both trees.
While diet is shown to be phylogenetically constrained in both analyses the authors find some
problematic results for the reconstructions of flight ability and body mass. For example, in the
Bayesian phylogeny the nodes between crown palaeognaths and crown galliforms are reconstructed
as probably flightless, while in the parsimony phylogeny basal avian nodes are reconstructed as
flightless and larger than in the Bayesian analyses if ratites are included in the analysis. For the
parsimony analysis the authors used parsimony, implemented in Mesquite, to carry out the
Ancestral State Reconstructions. I would be interested to see whether applying Bayesian stochastic
character mapping or Maximum Likelihood methods to the parsimony tree would help to resolve
any of these issues.
The parsimony tree only has topology but no dates (and thus no branch durations). Model-based
methods such as Bayesian stochastic character mapping or Maximum Likelihood require explicit
branch lengths (usually duration) to work properly, and so are not applicable to undated parsimony
trees.
General comments:
Throughout the manuscript the findings are described variously as “robust” or “robustly supported”.
It would be useful to quantify this, in the results section at least (ie. state the bootstrap support etc),
as it’s not clear why the results are interpreted as robust.
We have added support values as appropriate
The use of a red/green colour scale in the figures is not generally recommended as it is likely to
prove problematic for readers with red-green colour blindness. I would suggest changing to red/blue
to avoid this issue.
we think these will be clear enough
Society Open
