Global network centrality of university rankings
Weisi Guo, Marco Del Vecchio and Ganna Pogrebna
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171172.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171172
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 29 December 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 15 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
3rd revised submission: 19 July 2017
4th revised submission: 18 August 2017
Final acceptance: 6 September 2017
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160868.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The research question proposed by the authors is interesting and relevant, as accessibility could
be related to the ranking of the universities. However my main concern is the hypothesis that the
university ranking could be related to the air transportation network. There are simple examples
which cast doubt on the rationale of the hypothesis, for example, The London School of
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Economics and London Metropolitan University are similar distance to Heathrow Airport,
however their rankings are very different. Dubai International airport is one of the busiest
airports in the world but the United Arab Emirates University is not in the top ranked
universities. To me the hypothesis seems flawed.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Tristan Henderson)
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see the attached file. I think that the review form needs editing here. I have included
identifying attributes deliberately, as I have chosen to make my identity available to the authors.
(Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160868)
12-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Guo,
The Editors assigned to your Stage 1 Registered Report ("Global Network Centrality of University
Rankings") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and editors suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 03-Jan-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
3
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Chris Chambers
Registered Reports Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160868)
See Appendix B.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept in principle
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Am satisfied with the revised version of the manuscript and the clarification of the null-
hypothesis.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Tristan Henderson)
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
4
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Major revision
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Thank you to the authors for revising their submission and taking my previous comments into
consideration. The main change has been to address my concerns over licensing and vagueness in
the hypothesis by changing to use the ARWU ("Shanghai") rankings. This, however, introduces
new concerns which need to be addressed.
The ARWU rankings are distinctive because of their focus purely on research. What does this
mean for your hypothesis? In effect you are now correlating transportation links with research
performance, which has been studied before. So you need to distinguish your work from this.
Somewhat controversially, the ARWU rankings have a strong focus on prestigious awards such
as Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals (some 30% of the ranking). These awards are typically given
out many years or decades after the original work has been conducted. But you are only looking
at changes over a single thirteen-year period. Do you expect transportation links to have a large
effect on Nobel-Prize-winning research over this timescale? This is not obvious to me.
The way that the ARWU rankings work is that the first 100 are given individual ranks, but after
this institutions are bucketed (e.g., 101-150, 150-200, 201-300). So any changes within a bucket will
not be detected. What would this mean for your methodology and analysis? It is not apparent
that the relative ranking analysis will capture this, since many trends will be obscured. Is it
possible to obtain a more fine-grained dataset from the compilers?
Finally, you claim that the ARWU rankings are free to redistribute but I could not find any
information to this effect on their website. If you could point to a definitive statement or
communication this would be useful.
In short, I think that you need to better justify your data sources for testing your hypothesis. I
would explore the use of a variety of rankings, and find out about redistribution from the
compilers (or only redistribute the data to which you have rights).
There are some minor typographical errors, e.g. "form" instead of "from", and "A.R. of World
Universities" in the bibliography.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161100)
25-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Guo,
The Editors assigned to your stage one Registered Report ("Global Network Centrality of
University Rankings") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and editors suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
5
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 16-Feb-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Chris Chambers
Registered Reports Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
One reviewer is now satisfied with the submission, however the other reviewer raises major
concerns with the proposed (new) ranking system that will be used, including the data quality,
data resolution and sharability of this source. These issues will need to be fully addressed before
the manuscript can be provisionally accepted.
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you to the authors for revising their submission and taking my previous comments into
consideration. The main change has been to address my concerns over licensing and vagueness in
the hypothesis by changing to use the ARWU ("Shanghai") rankings. This, however, introduces
new concerns which need to be addressed.
The ARWU rankings are distinctive because of their focus purely on research. What does this
mean for your hypothesis? In effect you are now correlating transportation links with research
performance, which has been studied before. So you need to distinguish your work from this.
6
Somewhat controversially, the ARWU rankings have a strong focus on prestigious awards such
as Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals (some 30% of the ranking). These awards are typically given
out many years or decades after the original work has been conducted. But you are only looking
at changes over a single thirteen-year period. Do you expect transportation links to have a large
effect on Nobel-Prize-winning research over this timescale? This is not obvious to me.
The way that the ARWU rankings work is that the first 100 are given individual ranks, but after
this institutions are bucketed (e.g., 101-150, 150-200, 201-300). So any changes within a bucket will
not be detected. What would this mean for your methodology and analysis? It is not apparent
that the relative ranking analysis will capture this, since many trends will be obscured. Is it
possible to obtain a more fine-grained dataset from the compilers?
Finally, you claim that the ARWU rankings are free to redistribute but I could not find any
information to this effect on their website. If you could point to a definitive statement or
communication this would be useful.
In short, I think that you need to better justify your data sources for testing your hypothesis. I
would explore the use of a variety of rankings, and find out about redistribution from the
compilers (or only redistribute the data to which you have rights).
There are some minor typographical errors, e.g. "form" instead of "from", and "A.R. of World
Universities" in the bibliography.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Am satisfied with the revised version of the manuscript and the clarification of the null-
hypothesis.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161100)
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170145)
22-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Guo
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170145 entitled
"Global Network Centrality of University Rankings" has been accepted in principle for
publication in Royal Society Open Science. The reviewers' and editors' comments are included at
the end of this email.
You may now progress to Stage 2 and complete the study as approved. We would be grateful if
you could now update the journal office as to the anticipated completion date of your study.
7
Following completion of your study, we invite you to resubmit your paper for peer review as a
Stage 2 Registered Report. Please note that your manuscript can still be rejected for publication at
Stage 2 if the Editors consider any of the following conditions to be met:
• The results were unable to test the authors’ proposed hypotheses by failing to meet the
approved outcome-neutral criteria
• The authors altered the Introduction, rationale, or hypotheses, as approved in the Stage 1
submission
• The authors failed to adhere closely to the registered experimental procedures
• Any post-hoc (unregistered) analyses were either unjustified, insufficiently caveated, or overly
dominant in shaping the authors’ conclusions
• The authors’ conclusions were not justified given the data obtained
We encourage you to read the complete guidelines for authors concerning Stage 2 submissions at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/registered-reports. Please especially note the
requirements for data sharing and that withdrawing your manuscript will result in publication of
a Withdrawn Registration.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your stage 2 submission. If you have any questions at all, please do not
hesitate to get in touch. We look forward to hearing from you shortly with the anticipated
submission date for your stage two manuscript.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Chris Chambers
Registered Reports Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
**********************************************
label_version_2
RSOS-170145.R1 (Revision)
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
8
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Major revision
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The paper shows that there are correlations between air travel hub centrality and university
ranking. The claims on this paper however are that air travel *improves* university ranking and I
see no substantiation of this in the analysis. Beyond economics there might be other cultural
factors or city/university fame factors which could aid this correlation.
I suggest the authors weaken the claims of this paper and discuss the correlation results of their
analysis opening including factors which could make both university ranking and air travel
hubbing be specific of a region.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170145.R1)
15-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Guo,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Global Network Centrality of University Rankings") have
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-Sep-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
9
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170145.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Chris Chambers
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
10
Associate Editor's comments:
Neither of the two Stage 1 reviewers were available to re-review the manuscript, therefore the
paper was assessed by one new expert reviewer. The reviewer raises the important point that the
correlational analysis cannot be used to infer causality. Indeed, it seems possible that for certain
major universities, the causal effect may be opposite to that assumed by the authors: that the
location of an airport could be driven, in part, by the location of a major university (e.g. Stansted
airport and the University of Cambridge). The issue of causality should be addressed more
thoroughly in the Discussion and appropriate caveats added.
In addition to responding to the reviewer’s comments, please also address the following points
noted by the editors:
1. There are unstated discrepancies in the range of data acquisition between the accepted Stage 1
manuscript and the Stage 2 manuscript. Under section 1(c), Hypothesis and Objectives, the
authors (at Stage 1) noted their intention to extract data on university ranking and global air
transport data from 2003-2016. However, at Stage 2 this appears to have been altered to 2005-
2016. Assuming this isn't a typographic error in the Stage 2 paper, this deviation needs to be
explained, with the explanation included within the Stage 2 manuscript at the relevant point
either as a footnote or in the main text. Similarly, at Stage 1, section 2(b) Global Air Transport, the
authors state their intention to “…use historical data (from 2000) to data in 2016”, but again this
appears to have been changed to 2005-2016 at Stage 2. Please ensure that all deviations from the
approved Stage 1 methodology are noted transparently throughout the manuscript and fully
explained. Please note that unexplained or unjustified deviations to protocol can lead to rejection
at Stage 2 (See Stage 1 review criteria #2 and #3 at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/registered-reports)
2. Section 5 should be renamed from “Discussions” to “Discussion”
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper shows that there are correlations between air travel hub centrality and university
ranking. The claims on this paper however are that air travel *improves* university ranking and I
see no substantiation of this in the analysis. Beyond economics there might be other cultural
factors or city/university fame factors which could aid this correlation.
I suggest the authors weaken the claims of this paper and discuss the correlation results of their
analysis opening including factors which could make both university ranking and air travel
hubbing be specific of a region.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS- 170145.R1)
See Appendix D.
11
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171172)
06-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Guo:
It is a pleasure to accept your Stage 2 Registered Report entitled "Global Network Centrality of
University Rankings" in its current form for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we
look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
**********************************************
ppendix A
Registered Report review: Global Network
Centrality of University Rankings
Tristan Henderson
University of St Andrews
tnhh@st-andrews.ac.uk
December 3, 2016
is is a public review of the preregistered study design, Global Network Centrality of University Rankings. I
ould like to begin my review by thanking the authors for submitting to the Royal Society Registered Reports
ries, and the editors for asking me to conduct this review. Without this I would not have been made aware
this new initiative; a new scienti<U+FB01>c endeavour of which I am highly supportive.
s per the reviewers’ guidelines,1 my role at this point is to provide feedback on the importance of the research
estion, the methods, data collection and data analysis, and whether su<U+FB03>cient detail has been provided to
event “undisclosed <U+FB02>exibility in the experimental procedures or analysis pipeline”. As this is my <U+FB01>rst time
viewing for Registered Reports, I have attempted to ensure that I have followed the guidelines by organising
y review according to the instructions.
The importance of the research question(s).
e research hypothesis as stated is “to discover if in the past decade, the universities in globally connected
ies have bene<U+FB01>ted disproportionately more from their increased international transport connectivity than
her universities.”
e hypothesis ties into the world city network concept espoused by the GaWC that provide some of the data
r this study [13]. But to the best of my knowledge, the speci<U+FB01>c e<U+FB00>ect of air transport links on university
rformance has not been examined, although related studies of research performance exist, e.g. how cities
ature in the network structure of research paper citations [8, 10].
e implications of the research are mainly policy-driven. Care should be taken, however, when using broad
iversity rankings for policy purposes [6].
The logic, rationale, and plausibility of the proposed hypotheses.
e hypothesis is somewhat vaguely speci<U+FB01>ed. In the introduction to Section 1 it is stated as above, which I
terpret as a test of whether air connectivity has caused larger changes in rankings over the last ten years.
t in Section 1(c) a slightly di<U+FB00>erent hypothesis is stated: “that global connectedness of a city contributes
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/registered-reports
gni<U+FB01>cantly to the relative ranking change of the local universities.” This second hypothesis statement does
t mention time, nor does it talk about increases in transport connectivity. While the methodology section
es discuss time (Section 1(a)(ii)), I think it is important to clarify the hypothesis.
th hypotheses can be interpreted as some form of “does air transport improve a university’s performance?”
n the face of it this does not seem implausible; air transport links might increase research collaboration,
allow more students to attend a university for teaching. But unpacking this requires care. How do we
easure university performance? The authors propose university rankings. But there are various rankings,
at measure slightly di<U+FB00>erent things, with institutions appearing at di<U+FB00>erent ranks as a result. So one needs
be careful about combining these rankings. Similarly, air transport might only be one factor, and indeed
related to other factors. A university might be in a city with air transport links for historical reasons, as
deed many universities predate the invention of the aeroplane. And yet again many rankings include some
tion of “reputation” in their methodology, which might be correlated with the age of a university. So while
is question can be formulated in a simple way, it might actually be quite di<U+FB03>cult to answer. In short, I <U+FB01>nd
is a plausible and interesting question to study.
The soundness and feasibility of the methodology and analysis
pipeline (including statistical power analysis where applicable).
o power analysis is provided, although it might be useful depending on the particular hypothesis being
udied. One university ranking goes as far to rank 11,996 universities [3], while the authors propose to study
000 airports and over 300 cities. So there is some scope for increasing the sample size if needed.
Whether the clarity and degree of methodological detail would be
su<U+FB03>cient to replicate exactly the proposed experimental procedures
and analysis pipeline.
e authors need to be clearer about their data sources. I read Section 1(a) as stating that only the QS
nkings were to be used, as they had been audited. But Section 3(a)(i) states that “the authors are taking into
nsideration several higher education rankings”, which are not speci<U+FB01>ed. As the relative ranking calculation
oks at changes over time, particular care must be taken with the QS/THE rankings as changes in methodology
2010 means that you cannot directly compare rankings before and after this date [2]. I would not be
rprised if there are other similar issues; see for instance recent discussion about changes in what are apparently
eak” papers [1, 9].
e methodology for obtaining data is also slightly unclear. The terms in Algorithm 1 are not explained. There
so seems to be a separate step missing which is the collection of geographical location data. As of the time
writing this review, the QS rankings[12] are presented on their website as a table of rank, university name
d a country <U+FB02>ag indicating location. Since country-level location is insu<U+FB03>ciently granular for linking with
e OAG data, there needs to be an additional step to localise each institution, e.g. some sort of geocoding,
perhaps using an additional data source such as wikidata.
Whether the authors provide a su<U+FB03>ciently clear and detailed
description of the methods to prevent undisclosed <U+FB02>exibility in the
experimental procedures or analysis pipeline.
y comments for the previous point apply here as well. The data sources and methodology need to be clearer
prevent <U+FB02>exibility.
Whether the authors have considered su<U+FB03>cient outcome-neutral
conditions (e.g. absence of <U+FB02>oor or ceiling e<U+FB00>ects; positive controls;
other quality checks) for ensuring that the results obtained are able to
test the stated hypotheses.
e authors propose to use Kendall’s t for measuring agreement amongst the various university rankings.
ne concern here is that such rankings are rather unstable, with high variation being considered noise [4,
. So it is important that some estimation of con<U+FB01>dence intervals be carried out when working with these
nkings [7]. Indeed this is incorporated into some rankings [15]. I am not an expert in this particular area
t I suggest that the authors give stability and con<U+FB01>dence intervals further thought (perhaps looking at [14]
d related work).
e authors correctly point out that economic growth is a potential confounding variable. I would also be
ncerned about confounding variables in the methodology of the rankings themselves. For instance, several
nkings incorporate some measure of how “international” a university is, which might well be correlated with
ansport infrastructure.
Additional questions
a separate part of the review form we are asked to comment on ethics, but for ease of reading (and writing)
nclude this here. I have a concern about the collection and sharing of data. The authors state that “The
niversity and Global Cities ranking databases are usually freely available online for non-commercial usage.”
urge them to con<U+FB01>rm this before commencing the study. For instance, the QS user agreement[11] states
at users cannot “Duplicate, license, sublicense, publish, broadcast, transmit, distribute, perform, display,
ll, rebrand, or otherwise transfer information found on QS (excluding content posted by you) except as
rmitted in this Agreement”, nor can they “Use manual or automated software, devices, scripts robots, other
eans or processes to access, ‘scrape,’ ‘crawl’ or ‘spider’ any web pages or other services contained on our
ebsite”. It does not seem apparent to me that the authors will have the right to redistribute data scraped
om the chosen university ranking websites, since these databases are copyrighted. They should speak to
e compilers of the various rankings before starting data collection, and to con<U+FB01>rm that data sharing is
rmissible.
Conclusion
y interpretation of the Registered Reports process is at this stage, a reader should be able to completely
derstand the proposed hypothesis, methodology and analysis, and indeed be able to conduct the study on
eir own. According to these criteria, at this point I do not believe that the preregistration of this study can
considered complete. While the research question itself is of interest, the hypothesis and the methodology
ed further clari<U+FB01>cation to prevent <U+FB02>exibility, the proposed statistical analyses need further consideration,
d the situation around data sharing needs to be con<U+FB01>rmed.
eferences
1] P. Baty. World University Rankings blog: dealing with freak research papers, 19 Aug. 2015. Accessed
3 Dec. 2016, Online at https://www.timeshighereducation.com/blog/world-university-rankings-blog-
dealing-freak-research-papers.
2] F. L. Bookstein, H. Seidler, M. Fieder, and G. Winckler. Too much noise in the Times Higher Education
rankings. Scientometrics, 85(1):295–299, Oct. 2010. doi:10.1007/s11192-010-0189-5.
3] Cybermetrics Lab. Ranking web of universities. Accessed 3 Dec. 2016, Online at http://www.
webometrics.info/en/world?page=119.
4] I. Dichev. News or noise? Research in Higher Education, 42(3):237–266, June 2001. doi:10.1023/a:
1018810005576.
5] S. L. Gnolek, V. T. Falciano, and R. W. Kuncl. Modeling change and variation in U.S. News & World
Report college rankings: What would it really take to be in the top 20? Research in Higher Education,
55(8):761–779, Dec. 2014. doi:10.1007/s11162-014-9336-9.
6] H. Goldstein. Using league table rankings in public policy formation: Statistical issues. Annual Review
of Statistics and Its Application, 1:385–399, 2014. doi:10.1146/annurev-statistics-022513-115615.
7] H. Goldstein and D. J. Spiegelhalter. League tables and their limitations: Statistical issues in
comparisons of institutional performance. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series A (Statistics
in Society), 159(3):385–443, 1996. doi:10.2307/2983325.
8] L. Leydesdor<U+FB00> and O. Persson. Mapping the geography of science: Distribution patterns and networks
of relations among cities and institutes. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and
Technology, 61(8):1622–1634, Aug. 2010. doi:10.1002/asi.21347.
9] E. J. T. Manganote, P. A. Schulz, and C. H. de Brito Cruz. E<U+FB00>ect of high energy physics large
collaborations on higher education institutions citations and rankings. 109(2):813–826, 2016. doi:10.
1007/s11192-016-2048-5.
0] C. W. Matthiessen, A. W. Schwarz, and S. Find. Research nodes and networks. In D. E. Andersson, Å. E.
Andersson, and C. Mellander, editors, Handbook of Creative Cities, chapter 11, pages 211–228. Edward
Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham, UK, 2011. doi:10.4337/9780857936394.00018.
1] QS User Agreement. Accessed 3 Dec. 2016, Online at http://www.topuniversities.com/user-agreement.
2] QS World University Rankings 2016-2017. Accessed 3 Dec. 2016, Online at http://www.topuniversities.
com/university-rankings/world-university-rankings/2016.
3] P. J. Taylor. World city network: a global urban analysis. Routledge, London, 2004.
4] D. A. Walker. Con<U+FB01>dence intervals for Kendall’s Tau with small samples. Journal of Modern Applied
Statistical Methods, 15(1), 2016. Online at http://digitalcommons.wayne.edu/jmasm/vol15/iss1/45/.
5] L. Waltman, C. Calero-Medina, J. Kosten, E. C. Noyons, R. J. Tijssen, N. J. van Eck, T. N. van Leeuwen,
A. F. van Raan, M. S. Visser, and P. Wouters. The Leiden ranking 2011/2012: Data collection, indicators,
and interpretation. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 63(12):2419–
2432, Dec. 2012. doi:10.1002/asi.22708.
Appendix B
Response Letter to RSOS-160868
Editor
General Comment: Two expert reviewers have now assessed the manuscript. As you will see,
Reviewer 1 questions the rationale underlying the main hypothesis, while Reviewer 2 is more
positive while offering a number of constructive suggestions for clarifying the hypotheses
and analyses plans, and data sharing plan. In sum, there is sufficient merit in the proposal to
invite a Major Revision. The authors should attend carefully to each point raised by the
reviewers.
General Response: Dear editor, we thank you and the reviewers for the valuable feedback
provided. We are grateful for all the helpful comments and suggestions which, we are sure,
will greatly improve the proposed manuscript. In what follows, we summarize our
responses.
<U+F0B7> Reviewer 1: It would appear that Reviewer 1 misunderstood our approach. We are
looking at the relative ranking growth of universities and not the absolute ranking
(see Hypothesis in Section 1-c). As such, our hypothesis is that universities with good
global transport access have improved their ranking more so than other universities
in the same ranking regime. In the new version of our proposal, we emphasized the
fact that we are considering relative rather than absolute rankings which, we hope,
removes any possible misunderstanding.
<U+F0B7> Reviewer 2: Reviewer 2 raised many important issues. We found many of his
suggestions very helpful in constructing a more rounded approach to our analysis
and responded to him point by point. One major change we made in response to
Reviewer 2’s comments is the change with regard to the choice of our data sources.
Specifically, Reviewer 2 pointed our important legal problems and copyright issues
associated with scraping of the QS University Ranking data which we have originally
overlooked. In order to address this important point, we have decided to use
another reputable ranking which is open source (i.e., unlike QS it does not have
copyright restrictions): the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU).
<U+F0B7> Changes in the proposal: For convenience, we have highlighted changes in the
revised proposal in blue.
Reviewer 1
General Comment: The research question proposed by the authors is interesting and
relevant, as accessibility could be related to the ranking of the universities. However, my
main concern is the hypothesis that the university ranking could be related to the air
transportation network. There are simple examples which cast doubt on the rationale of the
hypothesis, for example, The London School of Economics and London Metropolitan
University are similar distance to Heathrow Airport, however their rankings are very
different. Dubai International airport is one of the busiest airports in the world but the
United Arab Emirates University is not in the top ranked universities. To me the hypothesis
seems flawed.
Response to Reviewer 1:
Dear Reviewer 1,
We thank you for your interest in our research. Yet, it would appear that you misunderstood
our approach. In our analysis, we are measuring the relative ranking, not the absolute
ranking of universities. Please refer to the Hypothesis (Section 1-c) and Section 3-a-ii,
whereby we use a university’s relative rank change over a time-period (see equation 3.3).
We have revised our abstract to highlight this feature of our analysis in order to avoid future
confusion.
Reviewer 2
Dear Reviewer 2,
We really appreciate all comments and suggestions which you have provided. In the new
version of our proposal, we tried to address all issues you have raised. We hope that you
will find our changes appropriate and satisfactory.
1. The importance of the research question(s).
Comment 1: The research hypothesis as stated is “to discover if in the past decade, the
universities in globally connected cities have benefited disproportionately more from their
increased international transport connectivity than other universities.” The hypothesis ties
into the world city network concept espoused by the GaWC that provide some of the data
for this study [13]. But to the best of my knowledge, the specific effect of air transport links
on university performance has not been examined, although related studies of research
performance exist, e.g. how cities feature in the network structure of research paper
citations [8, 10]. The implications of the research are mainly policy-driven. Care should be
taken, however, when using broad university rankings for policy purposes [6].
Response 1: We thank the reviewer for these encouraging remarks. We agree that the
question is important, and we will of course be careful to explicitly state the
aforementioned caveats when engaging with policy at any level.
2. The logic, rationale, and plausibility of the proposed hypotheses.
Comment 2: The hypothesis is somewhat vaguely specified. In the introduction to Section 1 it
is stated as above, which I interpret as a test of whether air connectivity has caused larger
changes in rankings over the last ten years. But in Section 1(c) a slightly different hypothesis
is stated: “that global connectedness of a city contributes significantly to the relative
ranking change of the local universities.” This second hypothesis statement does not
mention time, nor does it talk about increases in transport connectivity. While the
methodology section does discuss time (Section 1(a)(ii)), I think it is important to clarify the
hypothesis. Both hypotheses can be interpreted as some form of “does air transport improve
a university’s performance?” On the face of it this does not seem implausible; air transport
links might increase research collaboration, or allow more students to attend a university for
teaching. But unpacking this requires care. How do we measure university performance? The
authors propose university rankings. But there are various rankings that measure slightly
different things, with institutions appearing at different ranks as a result. So, one needs to be
careful about combining these rankings. Similarly, air transport might only be one factor,
and indeed be related to other factors. A university might be in a city with air transport links
for historical reasons, as indeed many universities predate the invention of the aeroplane.
And yet again many rankings include some notion of “reputation” in their methodology,
which might be correlated with the age of a university. So while this question can be
formulated in a simple way, it might actually be quite difficult to answer. In short, I find this
a plausible and interesting question to study.
Response 2: We thank the reviewer for helping us to refine our hypothesis and to make it
more precise. We have revised our hypothesis formulation by including a specific time
window: “The hypothesis tested in this paper is whether global air transport connectivity
improves a university's relative ranking performance. The data will be collected from 2000 to
2016.”
We acknowledge that university rankings are not a definitive metric for performance and
indeed the air transport network is not a perfect proxy for global connectivity (i.e., visa
restrictions is a key factor). Nonetheless, we believe that these two datasets can be used to
form an initial study in this new area, and our results will inspire further research which will
refine this work. We will, of course, be careful to explicitly state these caveats when
engaging with policy at any level. These limitations will be specifically pointed out in the
Discussion section of our proposed manuscript.
3. The soundness and feasibility of the methodology and analysis pipeline.
Comment 3: No power analysis is provided, although it might be useful depending on the
particular hypothesis being studied. One university ranking goes as far to rank 11,996
universities [3], while the authors propose to study 9,000 airports and over 300 cities. So
there is some scope for increasing the sample size if needed.
Response 3: We thank the reviewer for spotting this disagreement in remarks. As pointed
out, some universities might reside in a city that is not present in the GaWC or airport
dataset. We propose to solve the above mentioned issue by measuring the spatial distance
from a university to the nearest city in the GaWC dataset. Regarding the absence of power
analysis, we are using the full university rankings and the full flight network data (i.e., we do
not operate with samples of data but we use entire data available).
4. Whether the clarity and degree of methodological detail would be sufficient to replicate
exactly the proposed experimental procedures and analysis pipeline.
Comment 4.1: The authors need to be clearer about their data sources. I read Section 1(a) as
stating that only the QS rankings were to be used, as they had been audited. But Section
3(a)(i) states that “the authors are taking into consideration several higher education
rankings”, which are not specified. As the relative ranking calculation looks at changes over
time, particular care must be taken with the QS/THE rankings as changes in methodology in
2010 means that you cannot directly compare rankings before and after this date [2]. I
would not be surprised if there are other similar issues; see for instance recent discussion
about changes in what are apparently “freak” papers [1, 9].
Response 4.1: We thank the reviewer for spotting this disagreement in remarks. After
investigating the legal requirements on data use for QS/THE, we have decided to focus our
analysis around the Academic Ranking of World Universities. This ranking goes back to 2003
and its methodology has not changed since 2003 – see reference [b] at end of the response.
We have reflected this in the paper proposal – see Section I-B.
Comment 4.2: The methodology for obtaining data is also slightly unclear. The terms in
Algorithm 1 are not explained. There also seems to be a separate step missing which is the
collection of geographical location data. As of the time of writing this review, the QS
rankings [12] are presented on their website as a table of rank, university name and a
country flag indicating location. Since country-level location is insufficiently granular for
linking with the OAG data, there needs to be an additional step to localize each institution,
e.g. some sort of geocoding, or perhaps using an additional data source such as wikidata.
Response 4.2: We thank the reviewer for spotting these issues. The reviewer can now find a
new description of the web-scraping procedure in the revised proposal. Furthermore, to
overcome the issue of insufficiently granular location data, we plan to use the Google Maps
Geocoding API which, given the name of a university, will return its complete address with
lon-lat coordinates.
5. Whether the authors provide a sufficiently clear and detailed description of the methods
to prevent undisclosed flexibility in the experimental procedures or analysis pipeline.
Comment 5: My comments for the previous point apply here as well. The data sources and
methodology need to be clearer to prevent flexibility.
Response 5: We have addressed your comments in the previous responses. Thank you.
6. Whether the authors have considered sufficient outcome-neutral conditions for
ensuring that the results obtained are able to test the stated hypotheses.
Comment 6.1: The authors propose to use Kendall’s for measuring agreement amongst the
various university rankings. One concern here is that such rankings are rather unstable, with
high variation being considered noise [4, 5]. So it is important that some estimation of
confidence intervals be carried out when working with these rankings [7]. Indeed, this is
incorporated into some rankings [15]. I am not an expert in this particular area, but I suggest
that the authors give stability and confidence intervals further thought (perhaps looking at
[14] and related work).
Response 6.1: We agree with the reviewer, however, following our decision to focus our
analysis on the ARWU ranking alone due to data usage rights, we no longer need any
“Ranking Concordance” analysis. Thus, the corresponding subsection has been removed
from the proposal.
Comment 6.2: The authors correctly point out that economic growth is a potential
confounding variable. I would also be concerned about confounding variables in the
methodology of the rankings themselves. For instance, several rankings incorporate some
measure of how “international” a university is, which might well be correlated with
transport infrastructure.
Response 6.2:
We agree with the reviewer. However, since our choice of using the ARWU ranking, we no
longer have this issue as the “internationality” of a university is not considered – see
reference [b] at the end of the response.
7. Additional questions
Comment 7: In a separate part of the review form we are asked to comment on ethics, but
for ease of reading (and writing) I include this here. I have a concern about the collection and
sharing of data. The authors state that “The University and Global Cities ranking databases
are usually freely available online for non-commercial usage.” I urge them to confirm this
before commencing the study. For instance, the QS user agreement [11] states that users
cannot “Duplicate, license, sublicense, publish, broadcast, transmit, distribute, perform,
display, sell, rebrand, or otherwise transfer information found on QS (excluding content
posted by you) except as permitted in this Agreement”, nor can they “Use manual or
automated software, devices, scripts robots, other means or processes to access, ‘scrape,’
‘crawl’ or ‘spider’ any web pages or other services contained on our website”. It does not
seem apparent to me that the authors will have the right to redistribute data scraped from
the chosen university ranking websites, since these databases are copyrighted. They should
speak to the compilers of the various rankings before starting data collection, and to confirm
that data sharing is permissible.
Comment 7:
We thank the reviewer for spotting these issues. To overcome these problems, we have
decided to use the ARWU ranking whose dataset has “cited and employed” in several
academic works and does not have restrictions regarding its scraping and usage – see
reference [a] at the end of the response.
8. Conclusion
Comment 8: My interpretation of the Registered Reports process is at this stage, a reader
should be able to completely understand the proposed hypothesis, methodology and
analysis, and indeed be able to conduct the study on their own. According to these criteria,
at this point I do not believe that the preregistration of this study can be considered
complete. While the research question itself is of interest, the hypothesis and the
methodology need further clarification to prevent flexibility, the proposed statistical
analyses need further consideration, and the situation around data sharing needs to be
confirmed.
Response 8: We would like to thank the reviewer once again for such a thorough and
thoughtful review. We have found it extremely useful in sharpening our hypothesis,
methodology, and data acquisition processes. We have also clarified how we will obtain
data in ways that do not violate data usage agreements, and share only the data we have
used for the study. We hope the reviewer finds the renewed manuscript proposal
acceptable and we look forward to sharing the results of the analysis later in the year with
the reviewers, the editor, and the wider community.
References
. [a] Academic Ranking of World Universities. About ARWU. Accessed 21 Dec. 2016, Online
at http://www.shanghairanking.com/aboutarwu.html.
. [b] Academic Ranking of World Universities. ARWU Methodology. Accessed 21 Dec. 2016,
Online at http://www.shanghairanking.com/ARWU-Methodology-2016.html.
Appendix C
Manuscript ID: Manuscript ID RSOS-161100
Title: "Global Network Centrality of University Rankings"
Dear Editor and Referees,
Thank you for considering the revision of our paper “Global Network Centrality of University
Rankings” for the Royal Society Open Science. We are happy to see that Reviewer 1 is now satisfied
with the submission. In what follows, we address concerns of Reviewer 2.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Am satisfied with the revised version of the manuscript and the clarification of the null-hypothesis.
We thank Reviewer 1 for their time and effort in considering this manuscript proposal and we are
happy to hear that they are now satisfied with the submission.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you to the authors for revising their submission and taking my previous comments into
consideration. The main change has been to address my concerns over licensing and vagueness in the
hypothesis by changing to use the ARWU ("Shanghai") rankings. This, however, introduces new
concerns which need to be addressed.
Response: We are very grateful to Reviewer 2 for carefully considering our revised proposal. In what
follows, we tried to address his new comments and hope that now the registered report’s proposed
experimentation could be found acceptable for investigation. We have added text in blue to the
revised proposal to reflect the following clarification changes and thank the reviewer in sharpening
our thesis.
Comment 1: The ARWU rankings are distinctive because of their focus purely on research. What does
this mean for your hypothesis? In effect you are now correlating transportation links with research
performance, which has been studied before. So you need to distinguish your work from this.
Response 1: We have chosen ARWU ranking not only because it is an open-source ranking but also
because it seems to be concerned with overall excellence of universities. Indeed, 80% of the ranking
is composed of indicators directly relating to research excellence. However, 20% of factors are
related to teaching excellence.
Consider the following Tables 1 and 2 (at the end of the response document) directly quoted from
the ARWU website (http://www.shanghairanking.com). These tables list and explain indicators
which are included in the ranking. Tables 1 and 2 suggest that indicator Alumni and indicator PCP are
not strictly speaking research indicators. Specifically, 10% of the rating is directly related to the
quality of graduates (Alumni) which is an indicator of teaching quality. Furthermore, another 10% of
the ranking also takes into account the number of academic staff (PCP) and the number of academic
staff has direct implications on the quality of teaching and feedback. Therefore 1/5 of the rating
(20%) is directly related to teaching indicators. This suggests that ARWU attempt not to only assess
research excellence but rather capture overall excellence of universities. The ARWU ranking is also
discussed at teaching fora as an indicative of good teaching quality ranking such as, e.g., Times
Higher Education https://www.timeshighereducation.com/student/news/shanghai-ranking-
academic-ranking-world-universities-2016-results-announced blog which focuses on teaching rather
than research. It is therefore our belief that ARWU is a well-balanced ranking trying to go beyond
research outputs alone and capture overall excellence.
Importantly, the ranking takes into account not only the Nobel Prizes and Field Medals of the current
staff but also the Nobel Prizes and Field Medals achieved by the Universities’ alumni. Specifically,
according to http://www.shanghairanking.com/ARWU-Methodology-2015.html:
“The total number of the alumni of an institution winning Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals. Alumni are
defined as those who obtain bachelor, Master's or doctoral degrees from the institution. Different
weights are set according to the periods of obtaining degrees. The weight is 100% for alumni
obtaining degrees in 2001-2010, 90% for alumni obtaining degrees in 1991-2000, 80% for alumni
obtaining degrees in 1981-1990, and so on, and finally 10% for alumni obtaining degrees in 1911-
1920. If a person obtains more than one degrees from an institution, the institution is considered
once only.”
This is clearly an indicator of good teaching quality rather than research achievements. Moreover,
the rating for current staff’s prizes and medals is retrospective - i.e., it uses weights to “punish” for
older achievement and introduces lower weights for shared prizes, etc. Specifically, here is the
extract about how prizes and medals of the current staff are considered (see
http://www.shanghairanking.com/ARWU-Methodology-2015.html):
“The total number of the staff of an institution winning Nobel Prizes in Physics, Chemistry, Medicine
and Economics and Fields Medal in Mathematics. Staff is defined as those who work at an institution
at the time of winning the prize. Different weights are set according to the periods of winning the
prizes. The weight is 100% for winners after 2011, 90% for winners in 2001-2010, 80% for winners in
1991-2000, 70% for winners in 1981-1990, and so on, and finally 10% for winners in 1921-1930. If a
winner is affiliated with more than one institution, each institution is assigned the reciprocal of the
number of institutions. For Nobel prizes, if a prize is shared by more than one person, weights are set
for winners according to their proportion of the prize.”
This gives us confidence that the retrospective prizes of the current staff are properly weighted
across all considered institutions.
Comment 2: Somewhat controversially, the ARWU rankings have a strong focus on prestigious
awards such as Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals (some 30% of the ranking). These awards are typically
given out many years or decades after the original work has been conducted. But you are only
looking at changes over a single thirteen-year period. Do you expect transportation links to have a
large effect on Nobel-Prize-winning research over this timescale? This is not obvious to me.
Response 2: Reviewer 2 also argues that the link between research excellence of the universities and
transportation has been studied before in the literature. We have conducted a detailed literature
search, but we could not find papers which would exactly replicate our idea. Whilst there is research
in showing the importance of international co-authorships in research [A], there is no research that
tests for the importance of physical international transport infrastructure and the general excellence
of a university. Current studies on academic research collaborations can be conducted without
physical proximity or are related to historical proximity, but many other interactions cannot be done
so. Therefore, it is important to test the impact of existing physical connectedness of universities and
the impact it has on annual performance.
We hope we did not overlook any important sources of literature. If Reviewer 2 believes that we
did, it would be helpful to get citations on the relevant sources especially in the light of our
argument (above) that ARWU is not a purely research-based ranking.
[A] “National characteristics in international scientific co-authorship relations”, Scietometrics, vol.
51, 2004.
Comment 3: The way that the ARWU rankings work is that the first 100 are given individual ranks,
but after this institutions are bucketed (e.g., 101-150, 150-200, 201-300). So any changes within a
bucket will not be detected. What would this mean for your methodology and analysis? It is not
apparent that the relative ranking analysis will capture this, since many trends will be obscured. Is it
possible to obtain a more fine-grained dataset from the compilers?
Response 3: We thank the reviewer for pointing this out. Our strategy consists of analysing the first
100 entries – for which a fine-grained ranking is available – as well as the entire ranking by
considering all the permutations of the clustered entries. In so doing, we would be able to see
whether the correlation between the relative ranking position of a given university is (i) linked to the
air transport network and (ii) in the case of clustered entries, linked to the air transport network up
to a permutation. Note, ideally we would expect a high number of permutations to give the same
results as a consequence of the fact that institution within the same cluster have very similar scores.
Comment 4: Finally, you claim that the ARWU rankings are free to redistribute but I could not find
any information to this effect on their website. If you could point to a definitive statement or
communication this would be useful. In short, I think that you need to better justify your data
sources for testing your hypothesis. I would explore the use of a variety of rankings, and find out
about redistribution from the compilers (or only redistribute the data to which you have rights).
Response 4: Here is the quote from the ARWU website (listed under “About”):
“The Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) was first published in June 2003 by the Center
for World-Class Universities (CWCU), Graduate School of Education (formerly the Institute of Higher
Education) of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China, and updated on an annual basis. Since 2009 the
Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) has been published and copyrighted by
ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. ShanghaiRanking Consultancy is a fully independent organization on
higher education intelligence and not legally subordinated to any universities or government agencies.
ARWU uses six objective indicators to rank world universities, including the number of alumni and
staff winning Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals, number of highly cited researchers selected by
Thomson Reuters, number of articles published in journals of Nature and Science, number of articles
ndexed in Science Citation Index - Expanded and Social Sciences Citation Index, and per capita
performance of a university. More than 1200 universities are actually ranked by ARWU every year
and the best 500 are published.
Although the initial purpose of ARWU was to find the global standing of top Chinese universities, it
has attracted a great deal of attention from universities, governments and public media worldwide.
ARWU has been reported by mainstream media in almost all major countries. Hundreds of
universities cited the ranking results in their campus news, annual reports or promotional brochures. A
survey on higher education published by The Economist in 2005 commented ARWU as "the most
widely used annual ranking of the world's research universities". Burton Bollag, a reporter at Chronicle
of Higher Education wrote that ARWU "is considered the most influential international ranking".
One of the factors for the significant influence of ARWU is that its methodology is scientifically sound,
stable and transparent. The EU Research Headlines reported ARWU work on 31st December 2003:
"The universities were carefully evaluated using several indicators of research performance."
Chancellor of Oxford University, Chris Patten, said "it looks like a pretty good stab at a fair
comparison." Professor Simon Margison of Institute of Education, University of London commented
that one of the strengths of "the academically rigorous and globally inclusive Jiao Tong approach" is
"constantly tuning its rankings and invites open collaboration in that".
ARWU and its content have been widely cited and employed as a starting point for identifying national
strengths and weaknesses as well as facilitating reform and setting new initiatives. Bill Destler, the
President of the Rochester Institute of Technology, drew reference to ARWU to analyze the
comparative advantages that the Western Europe and US have in terms of intellectual talent and
creativity in his publication in the journal Nature. Martin Enserink referred to ARWU and argued in his
paper published in Science that "France's poor showing in the Shanghai ranking ... helped trigger a
national debate about higher education that resulted in a new law... giving universities more freedom".
According to the above, the ranking is “the most widely used annual ranking”. It is “is scientifically
sound, stable and transparent”. It has also been “widely cited and employed as a starting point for
identifying national strengths and weaknesses as well as facilitating reform and setting new
initiatives”. It also “invites open collaboration”. Furthermore, it is customary for the copyrighted
websites to include a statement which prohibits the use of data. Statements allowing the use of data
are rather rare. The AWRU website does not include any statement specifying that data mining from
their website is prohibited and the quote above indicates that the ranking is open to new
collaborations.
Comment 5: There are some minor typographical errors, e.g. "form" instead of "from", and "A.R. of
World Universities" in the bibliography.
Response 5: We have carefully read the registered report again and corrected all grammatical and
spelling errors.
Table 1 Indicators and Their Relative Percentages in the ARWU as presented at
http://www.shanghairanking.com/ARWU-Methodology-2015.html
Criteria Indicator Code Weight
Alumni of an institution winning Nobel Prizes and Fields
Quality of Education Alumni 10%
Medals
Staff of an institution winning Nobel Prizes and Fields
Award 20%
Medals
Quality of Faculty
Highly cited researchers in 21 broad subject categories HiCi 20%
Papers published in Nature and Science* N&S 20%
Research Output
Papers indexed in Science Citation Index-expanded and
PUB 20%
Social Science Citation Index
Per Capita
Per capita academic performance of an institution PCP 10%
Performance
Total 100%
Table 2 Definition of the ARWU Indicators as presented at as presented at
http://www.shanghairanking.com/ARWU-Methodology-2015.html
Definition of Indicators
Indicator Definition
The total number of the alumni of an institution winning Nobel Prizes and Fields
Medals. Alumni are defined as those who obtain bachelor, Master's or doctoral
degrees from the institution. Different weights are set according to the periods of
obtaining degrees. The weight is 100% for alumni obtaining degrees in 2001-2010,
Alumni
90% for alumni obtaining degrees in 1991-2000, 80% for alumni obtaining degrees in
1981-1990, and so on, and finally 10% for alumni obtaining degrees in 1911-1920. If a
person obtains more than one degrees from an institution, the institution is
considered once only.
The total number of the staff of an institution winning Nobel Prizes in Physics,
Chemistry, Medicine and Economics and Fields Medal in Mathematics. Staff is defined
as those who work at an institution at the time of winning the prize. Different weights
are set according to the periods of winning the prizes. The weight is 100% for winners
Award after 2011, 90% for winners in 2001-2010, 80% for winners in 1991-2000, 70% for
winners in 1981-1990, and so on, and finally 10% for winners in 1921-1930. If a winner
is affiliated with more than one institution, each institution is assigned the reciprocal
of the number of institutions. For Nobel prizes, if a prize is shared by more than one
person, weights are set for winners according to their proportion of the prize.
The number of Highly Cited Researchers selected by Thomson Reuters. The Highly
Cited Researchers list issued in December 2015 (2015 HCR List as of December 1 2015)
HiCi
was used for the calculation of HiCi indicator in ARWU 2016. Only the primary
affiliations of Highly Cited Researchers are considered.
The number of papers published in Nature and Science between 2011 and 2015. To
distinguish the order of author affiliation, a weight of 100% is assigned for
corresponding author affiliation, 50% for first author affiliation (second author
N&S
affiliation if the first author affiliation is the same as corresponding author affiliation),
25% for the next author affiliation, and 10% for other author affiliations. Only
publications of 'Article' type is considered.
Total number of papers indexed in Science Citation Index-Expanded and Social Science
Citation Index in 2015. Only publications of 'Article' type is considered. When
PUB
calculating the total number of papers of an institution, a special weight of two was
introduced for papers indexed in Social Science Citation Index.
The weighted scores of the above five indicators divided by the number of full-time
equivalent academic staff. If the number of academic staff for institutions of a country
cannot be obtained, the weighted scores of the above five indicators is used. For
PCP
ARWU 2016, the numbers of full-time equivalent academic staff are obtained for
institutions in USA, UK, France, Canada, Japan, Italy, China, Australia, Netherlands,
Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium, South Korea, Czech, Slovenia, New Zealand etc.
Appendix D
Response Letter to RSOS-170145.R1
Editor
General Comment: Neither of the two Stage 1 reviewers were available to re-review the
manuscript, therefore the paper was assessed by one new expert reviewer. The reviewer
raises the important point that the correlational analysis cannot be used to infer causality.
Indeed, it seems possible that for certain major universities, the causal effect may be
opposite to that assumed by the authors: that the location of an airport could be driven, in
part, by the location of a major university (e.g. Stansted airport and the University of
Cambridge). The issue of causality should be addressed more thoroughly in the Discussion
and appropriate caveats added.
In addition to responding to the reviewer’s comments, please also address the following
points noted by the editors:
1. There are unstated discrepancies in the range of data acquisition between the
accepted Stage 1 manuscript and the Stage 2 manuscript.
A) Under section 1(c), Hypothesis and Objectives, the authors (at Stage 1) noted
their intention to extract data on university ranking and global air transport data
from 2003-2016. However, at Stage 2 this appears to have been altered to 2005-
2016. Assuming this isn't a typographic error in the Stage 2 paper, this deviation
needs to be explained, with the explanation included within the Stage 2 manuscript
at the relevant point either as a footnote or in the main text.
B) Similarly, at Stage 1, section 2(b) Global Air Transport, the authors state their
intention to “…use historical data (from 2000) to data in 2016”, but again this
appears to have been changed to 2005-2016 at Stage 2.
Please ensure that all deviations from the approved Stage 1 methodology are noted
transparently throughout the manuscript and fully explained. Please note that
unexplained or unjustified deviations to protocol can lead to rejection at Stage 2
(See Stage 1 review criteria #2 and #3 at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/registered-reports)
2. Section 5 should be renamed from “Discussions” to “Discussion”
General Response: Dear editor, we thank you and the reviewer for the feedback provided.
We address your points:
1. These discrepancies are typos that appeared in the original manuscript.
A) We confirm that we changed the analysis from 2003-16 to 2005-16. This was
because after data mining the university rankings, we discovered that ARWU did not
have the full meta-scores for universities during 2003-04. This was needed in order
to analyse potential differences in universities that are clustered into ranking
categories (i.e., 100-150, 150-200…etc.). We could not have known this at Stage 1
without having performed the data mining. We set this out clearly in the Stage 2 (see
footnote on page 5):
“In Stage 1 of the registered report, we originally stated that we would use data from
2003 to 2016. However, we found that ARWU omitted or merged some of the
ranking meta-scores for universities in 2003-04. This was needed in order to
differentiate universities with the same clustered ranking. As such, we have limited
our analysis to data from 2005 to 2016 in the Stage 2 of this article.”
For the benefit of the editor, we attach screenshots of this at the end of the
response to show what we mean.
B) This is a single typo in the original Stage 1 manuscript. The reason was that in
Stage 1, Reviewer 2 asked us to change our data source from QS to ARWU university
ranking, which only starts from 2003. As such we made the 2003 to 2016 change
common for both the university and airport rankings. However, we left in a typo (as
you correctly spotted on Page 4) that says 2000. This typo was removed in the Stage
2.
2. This has been changed.
We summarize our response to the Reviewer 3 as well. Whilst we have shown that the most
likely confounding factor (economic output) is not significant, we agree with Reviewer 3’s
suggestions. As such, we have added a caveat paragraph in Discussion and softened our
claim in the abstract, and we also suggest ways to prove the strength of causal mechanisms
in future studies based on our data set.
We have also improved the graphical presentation of Figure 5 and all authors have proof-
read the manuscript and require no further changes on our side.
All data used is on Dryad (10.5061/dryad.fv5mn) and cited in the main paper as well as in
the data access field at the end of the paper. All ethics, author contributions, funding
information and conflict of interest information have been entered at the end of the
manuscript.
Reviewer 3
General Comment: The paper shows that there are correlations between air travel hub
centrality and university ranking. The claims on this paper however are that air travel
*improves* university ranking and I see no substantiation of this in the analysis. Beyond
economics there might be other cultural factors or city/university fame factors which could
aid this correlation.
I suggest the authors weaken the claims of this paper and discuss the correlation results of
their analysis opening including factors which could make both university ranking and air
travel hubbing be specific of a region.
General Response: Dear reviewer, we thank you for your time in reviewing our manuscript.
We agree that there may be confounding variables that may cause both the airport and
university ranking to increase simultaneously and that such an effect maybe sufficiently
global such that we can still get high correlation effects. We identified one of the mostly
likely cofounding factors, which is economic output of the city/region. We showed that the
economic output is not a confounding variable. As such, we have better confidence that if
there was such a hidden confounding variable, it is at least not economically related and
doesn’t lead to an improved economy. Your suggestion that cultural fame of a region may
contribute to more visits, but they are likely to be reflected in the general economic well-
being of the region. Nonetheless, we should not rule the unforeseen out and as such, we
agree with your suggestion and we have caveated our conclusions with the aforementioned,
as well as suggested ways to quantify the strength of causality. We have added the
following into the Discussion section (changes in blue):
“The interval regression analysis showed that certain aspects of air transport connectivity
are closely correlated with ranking changes. Whilst correlation cannot mean causality, we
encourage researchers to use methods such as directed entropy to test the strength of
causal arguments. This would involve sampling the probability space of airport and
university rankings. Nonetheless, using the results presented in this paper, we can show that
the most likely confounding variable (economic output of the city) was not significant in
determining the fluctuations in airport “hub” factor nor the local university rankings. As such,
we have a small degree of confidence in saying that, whilst there may be hidden factors
related to the culture and fame of a location, they would require more detailed qualitative
analysis.
In terms of impact, if our analysis holds any truth, then the research can inform policy at
both the university and the local authority level. At the university level, it is possible to
incentivize academics to connect nationally and internationally more. At the regional level,
there is growing recognition that universities not only serve as strong economic sources, but
are also part of the intellectual culture and education system. As such, the evidence can
inform regional investment policies on improving global connectivity by reducing air
transport tax and improving its infrastructure.”
We also changed our abstract to soften the strength of our conclusion to say that these are
initial feasibility study results which may help others further explore any connection
between university performance and global transportation connectivity:
“The impact of this research is that we have determined the importance of the centrality of
global connectivity and, hence, established initial evidence for further exploring potential
connections between university ranking and regional investment policies on improving
global connectivity.”
Supporting Evidence for Changing Data from 2003-16 to 2005-16
Missing/Altered Meta-Data in University Rankings:
See below 2003 missing/altered/merged the meta-data fields, compared to 2005. We also
did not include 2004, as there were also some missing data.
See below 2005 (consistent for 2005 to 2016), which has the complete and consistent meta-
data fields
Society Open
