Soluble hexamethyl-substituted subphthalocyanine as a
dopant-free hole transport material for planar perovskite
solar cells
Feng Wang, Xiaoyuan Liu, Ehsan Rezaee, Haiquan Shan, Yuxia Zhou and Zong-Xiang Xu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180617.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180617
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180617.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Yaowen Li)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript “Soluble hexamethyl-substituted subphthalocyanine as a dopant-free hole
transport material for planar perovskite solar cells” describes the designing of a new dopant-free
hole transport material, a SubPc molecule with a hexamethyl substitution at its peripheral
position (Me6-SubPc), for planar perovskite solar cells. Compared with SubPc, the Me6-SubPc
has better organic solubility, which makes it easy for fabrication. However, the champion device
showed an extremely low PCE of 6.96%. Compared to the reported SubPc HTM-based device
with a PCE of 6.6%, this Me6-SubPc HTL in this article makes only a little improvement in PCE.
In addition, the design of Me6-SubPc lacks novelty. So, I do not recommend to publish this article
in this journal.
Some comments:
1. In addition to molecular simulation, there is no other evidence to confirm the intermolecular
interaction between each Me6-SubPc.
2. The J-V characteristics of the best devices with different HTMs and with Me6-SubPc as HTM
(Fig. 5a and Fig. 5. b) is abnormal, please check.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Panagiotis Lianos)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This work is an important contribution to research on perovskite solar cells and should be
published subject to the following revisions:
3
It is not clear why it is necessary to move to sub phthalocyanines at the moment when regular
phthalocyanines have been more successful. Some arguments must be added, together with a
justification for the employment of the rest of the materials; for example why tin oxide in
combination with PCBM?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180617.R0)
25-May-2018
Dear Dr Xu:
Title: Soluble hexamethyl-substituted subphthalocyanine as a dopant-free hole transport material
for planar perovskite solar cells
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180617
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 17-Jun-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
4
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180617
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Ya-Wen
Wang.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This manuscript “Soluble hexamethyl-substituted subphthalocyanine as a dopant-free hole
transport material for planar perovskite solar cells” describes the designing of a new dopant-free
hole transport material, a SubPc molecule with a hexamethyl substitution at its peripheral
position (Me6-SubPc), for planar perovskite solar cells. Compared with SubPc, the Me6-SubPc
has better organic solubility, which makes it easy for fabrication. However, the champion device
showed an extremely low PCE of 6.96%. Compared to the reported SubPc HTM-based device
with a PCE of 6.6%, this Me6-SubPc HTL in this article makes only a little improvement in PCE.
6
In addition, the design of Me6-SubPc lacks novelty. So, I do not recommend to publish this article
in this journal.
Some comments:
1. In addition to molecular simulation, there is no other evidence to confirm the intermolecular
interaction between each Me6-SubPc.
2. The J-V characteristics of the best devices with different HTMs and with Me6-SubPc as HTM
(Fig. 5a and Fig. 5. b) is abnormal, please check.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This work is an important contribution to research on perovskite solar cells and should be
published subject to the following revisions:
It is not clear why it is necessary to move to sub phthalocyanines at the moment when regular
phthalocyanines have been more successful. Some arguments must be added, together with a
justification for the employment of the rest of the materials; for example why tin oxide in
combination with PCBM?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180617.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180617.R1)
07-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Xu:
Title: Soluble hexamethyl-substituted subphthalocyanine as a dopant-free hole transport material
for planar perovskite solar cells
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180617.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
7
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Ya-Wen
Wang.
Appendix A
To Editor, Royal Society Open Science
RE: Revised submission of manuscript entitled “Soluble hexamethyl-substituted
subphthalocyanine as a dopant-free hole transport material for planar perovskite
solar cells (Manuscript ID: RSOS-180617)”
Dear Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Thanks for the email with the reviewer comments of Royal Society Open Science. I
would like to submit the revised manuscript with the above captioned title for your
consideration for publication in Royal Society Open Science. The manuscript
(Manuscript ID: RSOS-180617) has been previously submitted and suggested to
submit a new manuscript after revision according to the reviewers’ comments. In
response to the reviewer’s recommendations, we made revisions to address his/her
comments and suggestions. The reviewers’ comments and details of the revisions
made to the manuscript are listed as follows for your consideration.
I would be very grateful if you would consider this manuscript for publication in
Royal Society Open Science. Please do not hesitate to contact me by e-mail:
xu.zx@sustc.edu.cn or fax (86)75588018304 if you have any queries or to convey
reviewers’ comments. Thank you very much for your time and attention.
Sincerely yours,
Xu Zong-Xiang, PhD
Department of Chemistry, South University of Science and Technology of China
ShenZhen, GuangDong, P. R. China
Tel: +86-755-88018310
Fax: +86-755-88018304
Email: xu.zx@sustc.edu.cn
Reviewers' comments:
Reviewer #1
Comment 1: In addition to molecular simulation, there is no other evidence to
confirm the intermolecular interaction between each Me6-SubPc.
Answer: Thanks to the reviewer’s suggestion. Boron subphthalocyanines (SubPcs)
have a delocalized 14p electron system, many papers (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2002,
41, 2561-2565; Chem. Rev. 2002, 102, 835-853; Tetrahedron Lett. 2009, 50, 2041–
2044; etc.) and the book (Andrew Simon Paton, Altering the Crystal Packing of
Boronsubphthalocyanine Derivatives through Molecular Engineering, Department of
Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, University of Toronto, 2013) had
introduced the intermolecular interaction between each SubPc. In this paper, we
confirmed face to face interaction p–p stacking and offset interaction p–p stacking
by analyzing the single crystal structure and the intermolecular interaction between
each Me6-SubPc can be confirmed by the redshift and widening of the Q-band
absorption.
Comment 2: The J-V characteristics of the best devices with different HTMs and with
Me6-SubPc as HTM (Fig. 5a and Fig. 5. b) is abnormal, please check.
Answer: Thanks to the reviewer’s suggestion. We checked Fig. 5a and Fig. 5b again.
Indeed, the subphthalocyanine-based devices have a lower FF, resulting in unnormal
J-V curves, which can be attributed to the lower hole mobility of the material. The
hole mobility of Me6-SubPc was 1.4 × 10-5 cm2 V-1 s-1, The low hole mobilities of
Me6-SubPc and dopant-free Spiro-OMeTAD were consistent with the unsatisfied JSC
and FF of solar cells, so the J-V curve is not smooth and it looks a little unusual. We
are further increasing the hole mobility and conductivity of subphthalocyanines by
means of molecular modification, and we hope to publish the results in coming days.
Reviewer #2
Comment 1: It is not clear why it is necessary to move to sub phthalocyanines at the
moment when regular phthalocyanines have been more successful.
Answer: Thanks to the reviewer’s suggestion. Indeed, the reviewer proposed a good
question. Metal phthalocyanines, especially copper(II) phthalocyanines (CuPcs), have
been investigated as the HTL in PSCs. Based on a recent study, the high efficiency
achieved for PSCs with phthalocyanine complexes as the HTL is about 17.5%. (Adv.
Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1601733.) However, this level of efficiency was obtained
using a dopant during device fabrication. Doping may enhance the conductivity of
the HTL and thus the efficiency of the solar cell, but it also decreases the stability of
the cell. Moreover, most phthalocyanine complexes have poor solubility. To achieve
a higher solubility in common organic solvents and a more suitable highest occupied
molecular orbital (HOMO) energy level that aligns with the valence band of the
perovskite material, a SubPc molecule with a hexamethyl substitution at its
peripheral position (Me6-SubPc) was successfully designed and synthesized in a
one-step method. Subphthalocyanine have a delocalized 14p electron system, good
chemical and thermal stability, one-step synthesis route, simple Purification,
conducive to industrialization. Also it has high modification and can obtain different
optoelectronic properties by modifying different groups in the a, ß position or on the
central B atom to meet the needs of different optoelectronic devices. In the revised
manuscript, we added the reasons for researching subphthalocyanine, the sentence
“good chemical and thermal stability, simple synthesis route, and a delocalized 14p
electron system; SubPcs can thus be applied in organic optoelectronic devices” was
changed to “a delocalized 14p electron system, good chemical and thermal stability,
one-step synthesis route, simple Purification , conducive to industrialization.
Subphthalocyanines also have high modification and can obtain different
optoelectronic properties by modifying different groups in the a, ß position or on the
central B atom to meet the needs of different optoelectronic devices”.
Comment 2: Some arguments must be added, together with a justification for the
employment of the rest of the materials; for example why tin oxide in combination
with PCBM?
Answer: Thanks to the reviewer’s suggestion. Indeed, our devices suffer from huge
hysteresis behavior. We are trying to minimize the hysteresis effect. Extremely thin
layer of PCBM was subsequently spin cast on top of SnO2. We want it to play the role
of interface modification. Efficient charge extraction achieved with the use of PCBM
as EEL makes the device much less sensitive to the device polarization, thus
producing an inherently more stable device. Tao C et al. have been highlighted an
interesting such device architectures as
FTO/TiOX/PCBM/CH3NH3PbI3/spiro-MeOTAD/Au for the first time. (Energy &
Environmental Science, 2015, 8, 2365-2370).
We used low-temperature solution-processed tin oxide as an electron transporting
layer for efficient perovskite solar cells. It has not only much higher electron mobility
but also a wider band gap than TiO2. The TiO2-based flat device, though showing
efficiencies surpassing 20%, is also affected by important shortcomings. One primary
limitation is the necessity of a 500 <U+2103> sintering step to form a crystalline TiO2 layer,
precluding its application on temperature sensitive substrates, including plastic foil,
silicon solar cells, and second perovskite solar cells.
In the revised manuscript, the sentence “Compared with TiO2 requiring high
temperature treatment and unstable ZnO, we chosen SnO2 with high electron
mobility and stability as ETL, simultaneously used PCBM to modify the interface
between perovskite and ETL to improve the electron extraction efficiency” was
added.
Following are the amendments that have been incorporated
according to the reviewer’s comments.
In the revised manuscript:
1. In Page 2, the sentence “good chemical and thermal stability, simple synthesis
route, and a delocalized 14p electron system; SubPcs can thus be applied in organic
optoelectronic devices” was changed to “a delocalized 14p electron system, good
chemical and thermal stability, one-step synthesis route, simple Purification,
conducive to industrialization. Subphthalocyanines also have high modification and
can obtain different optoelectronic properties by modifying different groups in the a,
ß position or on the central B atom to meet the needs of different optoelectronic
devices”.
2. In page 9, the sentence “Compared with TiO2 requiring high temperature
treatment13, 49 and unstable ZnO50, 51, we chosen SnO2 with high electron mobility
and stability as ETL, simultaneously used PCBM to modify the interface between
perovskite and ETL to improve the electron extraction efficiency30, 31, 52” was added.
3. In Page 15, three references were added: “50 B. Meyer and D. Marx, Phys. Rev, B,
2003, 67, 035403. 51 Z. Pan, J. Tao, Y. Zhu, J. F. Huang and M. P. Paranthaman,
Chemistry of Materials, 2010, 22, 149-154. 52 J. Seo, S. Park, Y. Chan Kim, N. J. Jeon, J.
H. Noh, S. C. Yoon and S. I. Seok, Energy Environ. Sci., 2014, 7, 2642-2646.”
Society Open
