Rensching cats and dogs: feeding ecology and fecundity
trends explain variation in the allometry of sexual size
dimorphism
P. J. Johnson, M. J. Noonan, A. C. Kitchener, L. A. Harrington, C. Newman and D. W.
Macdonald
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170453.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170453
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 May 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170453)
22-May-2017
Dear Dr Johnson
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170453 entitled
"Rensching Cats and Dogs: Feeding ecology and fecundity trends explain variation in the
allometry of sexual size dimorphism" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the editor's suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170453
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-May-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
3
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
The manuscript has been transferred to RSOS and has already seen by two reviewers, who found
the study scientifically valuable and offered several comments for improvement. In order to make
4
a decision on the manuscript, I would ask the authors to provide detailed responses to the
reviewers’ comments, and to consider my comments which are listed below.
Editor’s comments.
The description of the methods should provide more detail on the statistical analysis, in
particular how the models were built. Please aim at a level of detail which would allow
replication of the analysis.
Reviewer 1 noted that the analysis of canid diet was confounded by the correlation between diet
and body size. This comment has probably been addressed in the discussion (line 156 onwards),
but the argument not yet convincing. Line 162 suggests that body size and diet are not strongly
correlated, but this is never spelled out explicitly. Perhaps you can include data on this.
Moreover, the problem could perhaps be solved by analyzing diet and body size in the same
model. The manuscript never states whether predictors were combined into one model or tested
separately, but I got the impression that separate models were run for diet and social class. I
would actually recommend to combine all the tested variables into a single model, if possible.
Reviewer 2 asked about the choice of phylogenies. I couldn’t find an explanation of this choice in
the revised manuscript.
A previous analysis of the correlation between diet and SSD in felids was apparently removed in
response to a comment by reviewer 1. The description of the methods should be adjusted to this;
both social class and diet were analysed for canids only.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170453)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170453.R1)
01-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Johnson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Rensching Cats and Dogs: Feeding
ecology and fecundity trends explain variation in the allometry of sexual size dimorphism" is
now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
5
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Department of Zoology, University of Oxford
he Recanati-Kaplan Centre, Tubney House, Abingdon Road
ubney, Abingdon OX13 5QL, UK
+44 (0) 1865 611100
wcru@zoo.ox.ac.uk
www.wildcru.org
26/05/2017
Kevin Padian
Subject Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Dear Dr Padian,
Rensching Cats and Dogs: feeding ecology and fecundity trends explain variation in the
allometry of sexual size dimorphism, MS ID RSOS-170453
You recently supplied us with a thoughtful review of this ms. The authors were of course
delighted to hear that the work has been accepted for publication in RSOS, subject to our
ackling some relatively minor issues raised in that review.
As requested, we give a detailed account below of how we have reacted to those suggestions,
and (firstly) to those provided by the PRSB reviewers. The reviewers comments are below, with
our responses italic.
Regards
Paul J. Johnson
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author: RSPB-2017-0478
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
While the comparison of felids and canids is interesting and the opposite pattern in the consistency with Rensch´s
ule and fecundity and diet is suggestive, one can criticise that it is not very conclusive for several reasons:
1) Felids and canids are not very closely related, they are members of different carnivore sublineages, which
an make the comparison problematic as they might be confounding variables correlated with the observed
differences in the SSD pattern.
2) We have only two groups to compare, i.e. in fact only two data points.
Director of WildCRU
Professor David W Macdonald CBE FRSE DSc
We added a caveat to the discussion, at the opening of paragraph 2 to the version as submitted
o RSOS to deal with the first point. The reviewer is correct that at the level of family we have
only two points, and that will be clear to any reader.
3) Lack of correlation with diet in felids can be attributed to the little variability in their diet (they
are all carnivorous), the same holds for the correlation with social system in felids (and in fact also
ather little variability in canids).
We note in our introduction that the felids are homogenous in both their social system and diet
by comparison with the canids.
4) The relationship between diet and SSD (Fig. 3) in canids is confounded by body size: there is a
trong relationship between diet and size, i.e. small forms are omnivorous or insectivorous, while large
are carnivorous, hence we cannot disentangle the variables “body size” and “diet”.
Furthermore, I do not understand while the title stresses the feeding ecology and neglects the
ecundity.
n the discussion we added a note to the version as submitted to RSOS that the most carnivorous
canids were both more dimorphic and larger. Here we take the opportunity to make the
eviewer’s point on their confounding more explicit. This is added to the first paragraph of
discussion. In response to the RSOS editor, we have added the output of a model showing that
carnivorous canids are significantly larger.
The title was altered to deal with the second point here.
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study is methodologically sound and very well written. I only have a few points of criticism.
1. You need to do a better job of distinguishing this study from the previous study of Bidau and Martinez
2016), which you do cite, especially given that they looked at more measures of SSD, more life history
raits and you get pretty much the same results that they did (i.e., canids don't follow Rench's rule).
Bidau and Martinez didn't look at the relationship between SSD and diet or social system. Mentioning
his in the introduction is likely all you need to do, since you spend so much time setting up why you
hink they are important.
We did exactly as the reviewer suggested here, adding a note that the Bideau study did not
ook at the effects of diet or social system.
2. It was unclear to me from the methods that social system data was only collected for Canids.
We added a sentence to the effect that social class data was used in analyses only for canids,
he felids being too homogenous for meaningful analysis.
3. It is unclear to me why you used an older phylogenetic tree for canids (Linblad-Toh et al. 2005) than
you did for felids (Agnarsson et al. 2010, which includes all carnivores). Is the Linblad-Toh tree based on
more data, or better supported?
We have expanded the note on phylogenies to make it clear a different one was used for canids
because it contained more species.
4. Page seven lines 152-153. This seems like a strange statement to make given that there was no
evidence of a relationship between social system and SSD in canids, and you did not examine it in felids.
The reference to social system was removed here, the reviewer is correct.
5. Does figure 1 show male or female mass? The legend and the x-axis labels disagree. Also, why do you
have regression lines in figure 2 and not figure 1?
All the figures were redrafted with these issues dealt with.
label_version_1
RSOS-170453
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
The manuscript has been transferred to RSOS and has already seen by two reviewers, who found the
tudy scientifically valuable and offered several comments for improvement. In order to make a decision
on the manuscript, I would ask the authors to provide detailed responses to the reviewers’ comments,
and to consider my comments which are listed below.
Editor’s comments.
The description of the methods should provide more detail on the statistical analysis, in particular how
he models were built. Please aim at a level of detail which would allow replication of the analysis.
We have added notes on the response variable in our models, and on the predictor variables.
Our analyses could therefore be replicated.
Reviewer 1 noted that the analysis of canid diet was confounded by the correlation between diet and
body size. This comment has probably been addressed in the discussion (line 156 onwards), but the
argument not yet convincing. Line 162 suggests that body size and diet are not strongly correlated, but
his is never spelled out explicitly. Perhaps you can include data on this. Moreover, the problem could
perhaps be solved by analyzing diet and body size in the same model. The manuscript never states
whether predictors were combined into one model or tested separately, but I got the impression that
eparate models were run for diet and social class. I would actually recommend to combine all the
ested variables into a single model, if possible.
We have tackled this by adopting the editor’s suggestion of adding the analysis of body size and
diet for canids, showing that carnivorous canids are indeed significantly larger. This strengthens
he discussion at this point – there is no Rensch effect because the non-dimorphic non
carnivores span a wide range of body sizes.
Reviewer 2 asked about the choice of phylogenies. I couldn’t find an explanation of this choice in the
evised manuscript.
This has been corrected in the current version.
A previous analysis of the correlation between diet and SSD in felids was apparently removed in
esponse to a comment by reviewer 1. The description of the methods should be adjusted to this; both
ocial class and diet were analysed for canids only.
The methods have been adjusted as suggested.
Society Open
