When environmentally persistent pathogens transform good
habitat into ecological traps
Clinton B. Leach, Colleen T. Webb and Paul C. Cross
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160051.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160051
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160051.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrew Park)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I was original Reviewer 1. I was most interested in reading the authors' thoughts about the
separation of time scales (the only potential sticking point for me). You've stuck to your guns, and
that's OK. I think that readers can make their own mind up about whether or not the assumptions
apply to their study of interest. You present a 'fragmented landscape' argument, that suggests
population sizes in a patch are small (so carrying capacity reached quickly and colonization
rather slow) and that seems plausible. I agree with R2 that there is an elegance to the approach -
and we often have to trade off that elegance with realism. I think the study contributes to the
larger debate and highlights future work, especially in the re-written discussion. Nice job.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Olivier Restif)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, code freely available on github.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I reviewed a previous version of the manuscript which was submitted to Proc R Soc B. I am
satisfied with the revisions and responses to my previous comments. I think the manuscript is
very clearly written and scientifically sound. It provides a theoretical proof of principle that high-
quality habitats can create epidemiological traps that enhance the persistence of environmentally
transmitted pathogens. This has important consequences for wildlife management.
I would like to recommend two additions to the Discussion:
1. As stated previously, my main reservation with this study relates to the lack of within-patch
transmission dynamics: each patch is either uninfected or 100% infected, which is unlikely to hold
in any real-life situation. I do not believe that this issue undermines the usefulness of this study,
3
but it means that the specific predictions from this model would need to be validated before
being applied to any particular real system.
Recommendation: Acknowledge the limitations of the modelling framework, especially the lack
of within-patch dynamics.
2. In the section on "Consequences for management", the authors could consider the potential
impact of treatment of environmental reservoirs. The main example cited by the authors is that of
plague in prairie dogs. Other vector-borne diseases, and especially tick-borne, could provide
relevant examples. I'm thinking in particular of the work led by Ostfeld and Allan on the impact
of acaricide treatment of cattle on the health of wildlife who share their grazing land. (Keesing, F.,
B.F. Allan, T.P. Young and R.S. Ostfeld. 2013. Effects of wildlife and cattle on tick abundance in
central Kenya. Ecological Applications 23(6): 1410-1418.).
Olivier Restif, February 8 2016.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160051)
12-Feb-2016
Dear Mr Leach
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160051 entitled
"When environmentally persistent pathogens transform good habitat into ecological traps" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160051
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Feb-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160051)
See Appendix A.
er comments to Author:
er: 1
ents to the Author(s)
original Reviewer 1. I was most interested in reading the authors' thoughts about the separation
scales (the only potential sticking point for me). You've stuck to your guns, and that's OK. I
hat readers can make their own mind up about whether or not the assumptions apply to their
of interest. You present a 'fragmented landscape' argument, that suggests population sizes in a
are small (so carrying capacity reached quickly and colonization rather slow) and that seems
ble. I agree with R2 that there is an elegance to the approach ­ and we often have to trade off
egance with realism. I think the study contributes to the larger debate and highlights future work,
ally in the re­written discussion. Nice job.
you for considering the revised manuscript and for the positive feedback.
er: 2
ents to the Author(s)
wed a previous version of the manuscript which was submitted to Proc R Soc B. I am satisfied
e revisions and responses to my previous comments. I think the manuscript is very clearly
and scientifically sound. It provides a theoretical proof of principle that high­quality habitats can
epidemiological traps that enhance the persistence of environmentally transmitted pathogens.
as important consequences for wildlife management.
d like to recommend two additions to the Discussion:
tated previously, my main reservation with this study relates to the lack of within­patch
ission dynamics: each patch is either uninfected or 100% infected, which is unlikely to hold in
al­life situation. I do not believe that this issue undermines the usefulness of this study, but it
that the specific predictions from this model would need to be validated before being applied to
rticular real system.
mendation: Acknowledge the limitations of the modelling framework, especially the lack of
patch dynamics.
e section on "Consequences for management", the authors could consider the potential impact
tment of environmental reservoirs. The main example cited by the authors is that of plague in
dogs. Other vector­borne diseases, and especially tick­borne, could provide relevant examples.
nking in particular of the work led by Ostfeld and Allan on the impact of acaricide treatment of
on the health of wildlife who share their grazing land. (Keesing, F., B.F. Allan, T.P. Young and
stfeld. 2013. Effects of wildlife and cattle on tick abundance in central Kenya. Ecological
ations 23(6): 1410­1418.).
Restif, February 8 2016.
you for considering the revised manuscript. We agree with both of the suggestions have
sed them below:
ines 335­342, we added text to better highlight the lack of within­patch transmission dynamics,
more explicitly the fact that local populations can only be either entirely susceptible or entirely
us. The revised paragraph now reads:
amework used here provides general insights, but generating predictions for specific systems
s a careful consideration of the model's simplifying assumptions. In particular, the stochastic
occupancy model, though well suited for capturing realistic spatial structure, does not account
hin­patch dynamics. As a result, patches are modeled as either unoccupied or occupied by a
opulation with a fixed size and discrete disease status ­­ either susceptible or infected.
ccupancy framework assumes that within­patch dynamics (i.e. growth to carrying capacity and
athogen spread) are rapid relative to among­patch dynamics (i.e. colonization and extinction).
ver, it assumes that the pathogen spreads widely within a patch and affects host dynamics
ily by reducing population size. These are often reasonable assumptions, especially for
ely small populations in a highly fragmented landscape [12], but may not capture the non­
ies and nuances of host­pathogen dynamics in a single population.
ines 326­332 we added a paragraph discussing the possible use of our model to inform not just
oritization of conservation efforts, but also of disease control efforts. We mention the case of
rne diseases and treatment of cattle as an example. The added text reads:
ition to helping to guide the prioritization of conservation efforts, our model may also help to
the deployment of disease control measures, including the treatment of the environmental
oir itself. In the case of African herbivores and their tick­borne pathogens, for example, the
nmental reservoir created by ticks and livestock hosts could be controlled through the treatment
e with acaricides (Keesing et al 2013). Our work suggests that such efforts would likely be most
ve if focused on cattle that share high quality habitat with the wildlife hosts of interest.
Society Open
