Using Fisher information to track stability in multivariate
systems
Nasir Ahmad, Sybil Derrible, Tarsha Eason and Heriberto Cabezas
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160582.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160582
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 August 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 October 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 October 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160582.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Shweta Singh)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
YES
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an important contribution to the study of multivariate complex systems as the challenge of
the right metric is still unresolved. The paper presents details on use of Fisher Information as a
metric to detect regime shifts in complex systems using a time series data. Availability of a
Python module will allow others to use it. Hence, it is a solid contribution to the scientific
community
Further, the application of work on long term temperature is a good application example.
Only two points come to my mind that needs to be clarified or corrected.
- It is not clear to an ordinary reader how the quantum mechanics reference is related to
equation 3 ? What amplitude they refer to in line 42 on page 2 ?
- In equation 4, I believe the summation sign is I =1 instead of I -1 ?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript titled, “Using Fisher Information to Track Stability in Multivariate Systems” by
Ahmad et al. focuses on the application of information theory to understand stability in
multivariate systems. The authors specifically demonstrate the methodology using the concept of
Fisher Information. The manuscript is easy to follow and presents the calculation methodology
with a dummy example followed by demonstrating the use of FI to track trends in regime shifts
3
for the global mean temperature over a period of 135 years (1880-2015). In my opinion, the use of
information theory for sustainability science problems is highly under appreciated, holds strong
promise, and should be encouraged with more applications. I commend the authors for taking on
this very important and critical piece of work. Overall, I have a very positive opinion of the
manuscript.
Additional clarity in certain sections would further strengthen the manuscript (see my detailed
comments).
Specific Comments:
1. I very much appreciate all the equations for Fisher Information and the formulation
explicitly utilized in the present manuscript. In going from equation 2 to equation 3, probability is
replaced with the amplitude squared, that I believe represents probability density too. While the
authors cite some of Cabezas' previous work (Ref. 12), I recommend providing some rationale
and interpretation here to inform the readers.
2. Page 5- regarding the discussion on tightening levels (TL), can a preference structure be
established in a multivariate system where certain variables get preferential treatment compared
to others when detecting states?
3. The reviewer is particularly intrigued by the use of FI in multivariate systems with high
multicollinearity. In such systems, while one can calculate FI, there is high redundancy arising
from multicollinearity. Could the authors provide some guidance on this since the FI calculated
in such cases may be artificially inflated? The authors do mention at the beginning of the
manuscript that the choice of variables selected in a system is important.
4. Section 4- Is there any reported study or system that has seen a steady increase in FI?
5. This comment pertains to the choice of case study. While simple, appealing, and a topic
for which good quality long-term data exists, I wonder if the application of FI to study patterns in
global mean temperatures is the best case study to illustrate the concept of FI. I understand the
central highlight of the manuscript is not the case study itself but the demonstration of the FI
calculation methodology. Having said that, the case study chosen is such that it is likely to reveal
trends in regime shifts (high industrial development and resulting environmental degradation
starting in late 1970s and early 1980s).
6. Note that the FI methodology itself has been demonstrated amply and sufficiently in
several previous studies by Cabezas and co-workers, several of which are cited in the manuscript.
In light of this, I would recommend the authors to explicitly state and rephrase the main
contributions of the present manuscript and what it adds to the literature beyond what has done
previously. Of course, the authors mention making the python library publicly available (one of
the contributions).
7. I recommend a careful proofreading of the entire manuscript to fix minor typos and
grammatical errors.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160582)
05-Oct-2016
Dear Mr Ahmad
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160582 entitled
"Using Fisher Information to Track Stability in Multivariate Systems" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160582
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 14-Oct-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
6
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an important contribution to the study of multivariate complex systems as the challenge of
the right metric is still unresolved. The paper presents details on use of Fisher Information as a
metric to detect regime shifts in complex systems using a time series data. Availability of a
Python module will allow others to use it. Hence, it is a solid contribution to the scientific
community
Further, the application of work on long term temperature is a good application example.
Only two points come to my mind that needs to be clarified or corrected.
- It is not clear to an ordinary reader how the quantum mechanics reference is related to
equation 3 ? What amplitude they refer to in line 42 on page 2 ?
- In equation 4, I believe the summation sign is I =1 instead of I -1 ?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript titled, “Using Fisher Information to Track Stability in Multivariate Systems” by
Ahmad et al. focuses on the application of information theory to understand stability in
multivariate systems. The authors specifically demonstrate the methodology using the concept of
Fisher Information. The manuscript is easy to follow and presents the calculation methodology
with a dummy example followed by demonstrating the use of FI to track trends in regime shifts
for the global mean temperature over a period of 135 years (1880-2015). In my opinion, the use of
information theory for sustainability science problems is highly under appreciated, holds strong
promise, and should be encouraged with more applications. I commend the authors for taking on
this very important and critical piece of work. Overall, I have a very positive opinion of the
manuscript.
Additional clarity in certain sections would further strengthen the manuscript (see my detailed
comments).
Specific Comments:
1. I very much appreciate all the equations for Fisher Information and the formulation
explicitly utilized in the present manuscript. In going from equation 2 to equation 3, probability is
replaced with the amplitude squared, that I believe represents probability density too. While the
authors cite some of Cabezas' previous work (Ref. 12), I recommend providing some rationale
and interpretation here to inform the readers.
2. Page 5- regarding the discussion on tightening levels (TL), can a preference structure be
established in a multivariate system where certain variables get preferential treatment compared
to others when detecting states?
7
3. The reviewer is particularly intrigued by the use of FI in multivariate systems with high
multicollinearity. In such systems, while one can calculate FI, there is high redundancy arising
from multicollinearity. Could the authors provide some guidance on this since the FI calculated
in such cases may be artificially inflated? The authors do mention at the beginning of the
manuscript that the choice of variables selected in a system is important.
4. Section 4- Is there any reported study or system that has seen a steady increase in FI?
5. This comment pertains to the choice of case study. While simple, appealing, and a topic
for which good quality long-term data exists, I wonder if the application of FI to study patterns in
global mean temperatures is the best case study to illustrate the concept of FI. I understand the
central highlight of the manuscript is not the case study itself but the demonstration of the FI
calculation methodology. Having said that, the case study chosen is such that it is likely to reveal
trends in regime shifts (high industrial development and resulting environmental degradation
starting in late 1970s and early 1980s).
6. Note that the FI methodology itself has been demonstrated amply and sufficiently in
several previous studies by Cabezas and co-workers, several of which are cited in the manuscript.
In light of this, I would recommend the authors to explicitly state and rephrase the main
contributions of the present manuscript and what it adds to the literature beyond what has done
previously. Of course, the authors mention making the python library publicly available (one of
the contributions).
7. I recommend a careful proofreading of the entire manuscript to fix minor typos and
grammatical errors.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160582)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160582.R1)
12-Oct-2016
Dear Mr Ahmad,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Using Fisher Information to Track
Stability in Multivariate Systems" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
8
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Dear Editor,
We have attached the revised manuscript, “Using Fisher Information to Track Stability in
Multivariate Systems” (RSOS-160582). The reviewers’ comments were very helpful in
revising the manuscript and our responses are summarized below.
Reviewer 1
1. It is not clear to an ordinary reader how the quantum mechanics reference is related
to equation 3? What amplitude they refer to in line 42 on page 2?
Agreed. To make it less complicated, we removed the quantum mechanics statement. The
amplitude of the probability density p(s) is q2(s) and was used to eliminate the need for
handing small probability densities in the denominator of Equation 2. Some text was
added to clarify the relationship.
2. In equation 4, I believe the summation sign is I =1 instead of I -1?
Yes, thank you. We corrected it.
Reviewer 2
1. I very much appreciate all the equations for Fisher Information and the formulation
explicitly utilized in the present manuscript. In going from equation 2 to equation 3,
probability is replaced with the amplitude squared, that I believe represents
probability density too. While the authors cite some of Cabezas' previous work (Ref.
12), I recommend providing some rationale and interpretation here to inform the
readers.
Moving from equation 2 to 3, the probability density p(s) is replaced by the probability
amplitude function, using q2(s) = p(s), and was used to eliminate the need for handing
small probability densities in the denominator of equation 2. We updated the text to clarify
this relationship.
2. Page 5- regarding the discussion on tightening levels (TL), can a preference structure
be established in a multivariate system where certain variables get preferential
treatment compared to others when detecting states?
At this time, the tightening level (TL) algorithm is “blind” in that there is no preference at
all. Essentially the TL starts at 100% indicating that all variables must meet the size of
states criteria in order to bin (group) points into the same state. Then, the TL decreases
from 1 to 99% and the algorithm checks to see if 99% of the variables meet the size of
state criteria, and so on. This process is done iteratively but without identifying the
variables that do or do not meet the criteria. Indeed, a preference structure could be
established which would be useful in identifying the variables that have the greatest impact
on changes in FI. This is something that we have considered and definitely plan to explore
in the future, but it is not part of the algorithm at this moment.
3. The reviewer is particularly intrigued by the use of FI in multivariate systems with
high multicollinearity. In such systems, while one can calculate FI, there is high
redundancy arising from multicollinearity. Could the authors provide some guidance
on this since the FI calculated in such cases may be artificially inflated? The authors
do mention at the beginning of the manuscript that the choice of variables selected in
a system is important.
The variables used need to properly characterize system condition. Therefore, their
selection is critical to ensure that the dynamic behaviour of the system is properly
captured. Since variable trends are typically unique to a particular system, it is quite
possible that some variables may reflect similar patterns. However, given that we are not
developing a predictive model, the “correlation structure is not critical” to computing FI
(Eason and Cabezas 2012). The FI computation entails monitoring system dynamics by
assessing changes in each individual variable and not in comparison to each other. With
that said, we highly recommend that care be taken when selecting variables and make sure
not to use both specific and summative variables to describe a particular system
characteristic (e.g. summative: meat consumption, specific: bovine consumption, sheep
consumption). If desired, principle component analysis (PCA) can be used to examine the
correlation structure and create a sub-set of uncorrelated variables (US EPA 2010).
However, one has to understand that the presence or absence of correlation between
variables as determined from a statistical procedure is valid only for the specific values in
the particular data set which characterize a certain set of conditions. The system under
different conditions may or may not have these correlations. Simply put, it is the
responsibility of the user to ensure that the right data is selected (otherwise the computer
saying “garbage in – garbage out” applies).
4. Section 4- Is there any reported study or system that has seen a steady increase in FI?
Yes, this behaviour is often seen particularly when studying regime shifts. Typically, a
system becomes less stable as it moves toward a threshold. In many systems, this
instability is reflected as a declining FI. As the system passes the threshold, if there are
attractors that draw the system into a new steady state regime, the system will begin to
reorganize into a new set of conditions resulting in a steadily increasing FI for a period and
then plateauing as the system stabilizes into a new regime. As an example, we explored
shifting dynamics in a shallow lake by modelling the inflow and removal of phosphorous.
Initially, the phosphorous concentration was stable and then slowly increased. During the
initial transition, there was an abrupt decline, followed by a prompt increase and
stabilization in FI. This was followed by a more prolonged period of phosphorous loading
characterized by a rapid decline and then a shallow, yet steadily rising FI, preceding a
more rapid FI increase as the system reached a tipping point and phosphorous level
overwhelmed the phosphorous removal efforts (e.g. sedimentation, sequestration) causing
the system to transition from oligotrophic to eutrophic (Eason et al. 2016). Other
examples include a predator-prey ecosystem model, regime shift in the pacific ocean, long
term instability in Foy Lake (Montana, USA) diatom community dynamics, social-
economic conditions in urban systems, US air quality and a drought impacted Spanish
watershed (Karunanithi et al. 2008, Gonzalez-Mejia et al. 2012, Eason et al. 2014;
Gonzalez-Mejia et al. 2014; Spanbauer et al. 2014; Gonzalez-Mejia et al. 2015; Eason et
al. 2016).
underlying system variables (Eason et al. 2014; Gonzalez-Mejia et al. 2015).
5. This comment pertains to the choice of case study. While simple, appealing, and a
topic for which good quality long-term data exists, I wonder if the application of FI to
study patterns in global mean temperatures is the best case study to illustrate the
concept of FI. I understand the central highlight of the manuscript is not the case
study itself but the demonstration of the FI calculation methodology. Having said
that, the case study chosen is such that it is likely to reveal trends in regime shifts
(high industrial development and resulting environmental degradation starting in
late 1970s and early 1980s).
Indeed, we thought it best to present a simple case study to make it easy for the reader to
grasp the basic concepts of computing FI. Our hope is that this approach entices the reader
to use the python scripts to explore their own systems and use some of more advanced
studies as inspiration. As the reviewer pointed, the evolution of global mean temperatures
may not be the ideal data set, but we still prefer to use it since it simply relates to many
other disciplines, and most researchers will have a “feel” for it when reading the article
and trying out the scripts.
6. Note that the FI methodology itself has been demonstrated amply and sufficiently in
several previous studies by Cabezas and co-workers, several of which are cited in the
manuscript. In light of this, I would recommend the authors to explicitly state and
rephrase the main contributions of the present manuscript and what it adds to the
literature beyond what has done previously. Of course, the authors mention making
the python library publicly available (one of the contributions).
In line with the reviewers’ assessments, the goal of the work is to expand the use of FI for
sustainability science problems and extend it to big data applications. The method has
been used in multiple arenas but the reach of the approach has been limited by only having
a Matlab version of the algorithm which is only available either by capturing the code
from the US EPA study or contacting the code developer directly to access the executable
graphical user interface (US EPA 2010). This manuscript serves as a means of presenting
the FI methodology, demonstrating the utility of the approach with a simple example, and
introducing the openly accessible python scripts. It is much more inline with a Nature
Scientific Data article (hence the “official” publication of the code that will now be citable
by citing this article). Text has been added to clarify the contributions.
7. I recommend a careful proofreading of the entire manuscript to fix minor typos and
grammatical errors.
Reviewed and revised as necessary. Thank you very much for your comments.
References
<U+F0B7> Eason, T., Garmestani, A. S. & Cabezas, H. 2014 Managing for resilience: early
detection of regime shifts in complex systems. Clean Technol. Environ. Policy 16, 773–
783. (doi:10.1007/s10098-013-0687-2)
<U+F0B7> Eason, T., Garmestani, A. S., Stow, C. A., Rojo, C., Alvarez-Cobelas, M. & Cabezas,
H. 2016. Managing for resilience: an information theory-based approach to assessing
ecosystems. J. Appl. Ecol. , n/a-n/a. (doi:10.1111/1365-2664.12597)
<U+F0B7> Gonzalez-Mejía, A. M., Eason, T. N., Cabezas, H. & Suidan, M. T. 2012 Assessing
Sustainability in Real Urban Systems: The Greater Cincinnati Metropolitan Area in
Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana. Environ. Sci. Technol. 46, 9620–9629.
(doi:10.1021/es3007904)
<U+F0B7> González-Mejía, A. M., Eason, T. N., Cabezas, H. & Suidan, M. T. 2014 Social and
economic sustainability of urban systems: comparative analysis of metropolitan
statistical areas in Ohio, USA. Sustain. Sci. 9, 217–228. (doi:10.1007/s11625-013-0227-
3)
<U+F0B7> Gonzalez-Mejia, A. M., Vance, L., Eason, T. & Cabezas, H. 2015 Recent developments
in the application of Fisher information to sustainable environmental management. In
Assessing and Measuring Environmental Impact and Sustainability (ed J. J. Klemes),
pp. 25–72. Butterworth-Heinemann.
<U+F0B7> Karunanithi, A. T., Cabezas, H., Frieden, B. R. & Pawlowski, C. W. 2008 Detection
and assessment of ecosystem regime shifts from Fisher information. Ecol. Soc. 13(1):
22.
<U+F0B7> Spanbauer, T. L., Allen, C. R., Angeler, D. G., Eason, T., Fritz, S. C., Garmestani, A.
S., Nash, K. L. & Stone, J. R. 2014 Prolonged instability prior to a regime shift. PloS
ONE 9(10): e108936. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0108936.
We appreciate your consideration of this revised manuscript.
Sincerely,
Nasir Ahmad
Sybil Derrible
Tarsha Eason
Heriberto Cabezas
Society Open
