Spatial modelling of type II diabetes outcomes: a systematic
review of approaches used
Jannah Baker, Nicole White and Kerrie Mengersen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140460.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140460
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140460.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
More needs to be said in the Introduction to provide a motivation for the study and to justify the
study focus on a spatial perspective. Also why a spatial perspective is (especially?) relevant to
diabetes, or is the approach of the paper relevant to other chronic diseases with some element of
environmental causation.
The listing in Table 1 in fact is more in line with the traditional exclusively patient level risk factor
model , whereas the underlying basis of the paper is surely that both patient and environmental
risks may be relevant for many diseases. The mention of “poor environmental quality” in Table 1
is not clear in its meaning; does this mean pollution, area deprivation, etc.
Table 1 could include (as subtables) environmental risk factors along with individual risk factors
as presumably it is spatial clustering in environmental risks that is partly the source of spatial
clustering in disease rates. In this regard, there needs to be a referencing and discussion of the
literature on diabetes-obesity links, and the impacts on obesity of factors such as
walkability/sprawl and access to healthy food outlets (e.g. see
ww.be.unsw.edu.au/programs/healthy-built-environments-program/literature-review for a
review). Access to exercise/green space may also be relevant (see Astell-Burt et al, Diabetes Care
2014 for an Australian study). These are explicitly environmental influences on the growing
prevalence of diabetes and hence support the usefulness of a spatial approach.
The Introduction should also mention the contrast between multilevel studies and purely
ecological studies (both of which appear in the selected studies), and justify why both are
relevant to ascertaining risk factors underlying spatial variation in diabetes incidence and
prevalence.
Third, the Introduction should mention the major role of Bayesian methods in identifying spatial
disease risks, and mention the advantages of a Bayesian perspective.
As to the final Discussion, this should demonstrate the originality of the approach. The
Discussion seems to be cautious in arguing in favour of the methods used.
In this regard, is it the case that the Cochrane evidence review methodology is implicitly based on
the conventional medical model (i.e. exclusively patient level risks)? And if so, is the review of
spatial diabetes studies a template for a more wholistic evidence review approach that includes
also environmental risks.
Particular points:
1) In line 406 (para 1, section 4) should it be “area SES”.
2) section 3.2.1 is headed as multilevel, but the method described is single level (though at
the end of the section there is reference to [control for] individual level factors.
3) In line 345 should it say homoscedasticity
4) paragraph 4 of Section 1 does not mention diabetes comorbidities with cardiovascular
conditions, hypertension etc. Comorbidity with cancer is generally less common.
5) paragraph 5, last sentence, suggest “are potentially” rather than “would be”.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper is well written and clear and is a useful review of the spatial analysis of Diabetes T2
published work.
I have a number of general and Specific Comments
General Comments
Its not clear if the focus is DMI or DMII or both . On page 3 they state that '...health studies of
Type II diabetes .....'
but later they discuss combined DMI and II which is not really the same. In fact ther is doubt that
type I and II are really comparable etiologically.
There is also a lot of detail concerning model specification which could be reduced as the
audience is not likely to be very technical I assume.
The definition of 'spatial' seems to be very general...some models dont have spatial components
in them but do have uncorrelated areal effects (eg 3.1.1).
hence they need to define clearly what they mean.
Specific Comments
Page 2 l47 'Diagnosis of diabetes.....' ..'diagnosis of several....'
Page 5 l162 McMC
Page 5 l162-165....this sentence is not clear at all.
Page 5 l171 ICAR
Page 9 l281 '....undertaken to assess..'
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140460)
17-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Baker,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Spatial modelling of type II diabetes outcomes: a
systematic review of approaches used") has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 09-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
5
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140460)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140460.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
6
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
To confirm satisfactory revisions have been made.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140460.R1)
15-May-2015
Dear Dr Baker,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Spatial modelling of type II diabetes
outcomes: a systematic review of approaches used" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
RESPONSES TO REVIEWER COMMENTS
Manuscript Title: “Spatial modelling of type II diabetes outcomes: a systematic review of approaches used”
Authors: Jannah Baker, Nicole White, Kerrie Mengersen
Note: Line number references refer to the marked revised copy
REVIEWER #1:
REVIEWER COMMENT AUTHOR RESPONSE
More needs to be said in the Introduction to provide a motivation for the We have added further justification for the review and for a spatial
study and to justify the study focus on a spatial perspective. Also why a perspective to the Introduction, paragraphs 1-2, lines 25-46.
spatial perspective is (especially?) relevant to diabetes, or is the approach of
the paper relevant to other chronic diseases with some element of
environmental causation.
The listing in Table 1 in fact is more in line with the traditional exclusively We have expanded Table 1 to add environmental risk factors for type II
patient level risk factor model , whereas the underlying basis of the paper is diabetes mellitus (DM II). As we are unable to clarify “poor environmental
surely that both patient and environmental risks may be relevant for many quality” from the original source, we removed this from Table 1.
diseases. The mention of “poor environmental quality” in Table 1 is not clear
in its meaning; does this mean pollution, area deprivation, etc.
Table 1 could include (as subtables) environmental risk factors along with Thank you for the references. We have expanded Table 1 to add
individual risk factors as presumably it is spatial clustering in environmental environmental risk factors for DM II. We have referenced the two papers
risks that is partly the source of spatial clustering in disease rates. In this you have suggested in our Introduction, “recent research has demonstrated
regard, there needs to be a referencing and discussion of the literature on associations between DM II prevalence and geographic factors such as green
diabetes-obesity links, and the impacts on obesity of factors such as space, walkability, increased fast-food availability, car-dominated transport
walkability/sprawl and access to healthy food outlets (e.g. see and reduced opportunities for exercise” Lines 38-40.
ww.be.unsw.edu.au/programs/healthy-built-environments- We have also added to the Discussion “Several of the geographic risk factors
program/literature-review for a review). Access to exercise/green space may associated with DM II outcomes, including green space, availability of
also be relevant (see Astell-Burt et al, Diabetes Care 2014 for an Australian healthy food, car-dominated transport and opportunities for exercise are
study). These are explicitly environmental influences on the growing amenable to modification.” Lines 559-561
prevalence of diabetes and hence support the usefulness of a spatial
approach.
The Introduction should also mention the contrast between multilevel We have added a contrast between multilevel and purely ecological studies
studies and purely ecological studies (both of which appear in the selected to the Introduction, Lines 90-101
studies), and justify why both are relevant to ascertaining risk factors
underlying spatial variation in diabetes incidence and prevalence.
Third, the Introduction should mention the major role of Bayesian methods We have added a section outlining the major role and advantages of
in identifying spatial disease risks, and mention the advantages of a Bayesian Bayesian methods to the Introduction, Lines 102-111
perspective.
As to the final Discussion, this should demonstrate the originality of the In our Discussion, we have a paragraph arguing in favour of Bayesian
approach. The Discussion seems to be cautious in arguing in favour of the methodology for spatial modelling, Lines 492-498.
methods used.
In this regard, is it the case that the Cochrane evidence review methodology Thank you for the hint. We have added to our Discussion section, “Our
is implicitly based on the conventional medical model (i.e. exclusively review methodology is based on the Cochrane collaboration guidelines for
patient level risks)? And if so, is the review of spatial diabetes studies a review methodology; however, the Cochrane model is implicitly based on
template for a more wholistic evidence review approach that includes also the conventional medical model to exclusively identify patient-level risks
environmental risks. from randomised clinical trials. Our review provides a template for a more
holistic evidence review approach that also includes environmental risk
factors, which is immediately applicable to other diseases.” Lines 507-511
Particular points: Thank you – we have changed text to “area SES” – line 478
1) In line 406 (para 1, section 4) should it be “area SES”.
2) section 3.2.1 is headed as multilevel, but the method described is The authors describe their study as a multilevel Poisson regression, and the
single level (though at the end of the section there is reference to [control model adjusts for individual gender and age. This has been clarified by
for] individual level factors. adding “Individual gender and age characteristics were nested within
geographic characteristics.” Line 362. The exact formulae used in this study
are not clear from the original source and have been removed from our
review.
3) In line 345 should it say homoscedasticity Thank you, we have changed this to homoscedasticity, Line 451
4) paragraph 4 of Section 1 does not mention diabetes comorbidities with We have added references to associations between DM II and these
cardiovascular conditions, hypertension etc. Comorbidity with cancer is conditions in the Introduction, Lines 109-111
generally less common.
5) paragraph 5, last sentence, suggest “are potentially” rather than This change has been made, line 88.
“would be”.
REVIEWER #2: This paper is well written and clear and is a useful review of the spatial analysis of Diabetes T2 published work.
I have a number of general and Specific Comments
General Comments We have clarified our decision to include studies combining DM II and DM I
Its not clear if the focus is DMI or DMII or both . On page 3 they state that in the Introduction: “Type I diabetes mellitus (DM I) and DM II differ in
'...health studies of Type II diabetes .....' underlying aetiological factors, however, many spatial studies analyse both
but later they discuss combined DMI and II which is not really the same. In in combination. As the vast majority of diabetic cases (90-95%) are
fact ther is doubt that type I and II are really comparable etiologically. accounted for by DM II, inclusion of these studies is still useful for
There is also a lot of detail concerning model specification which could be examination of DM II outcomes, as the remaining small proportion of DM I
reduced as the audience is not likely to be very technical I assume. cases is unlikely to bias results very much. Thus inferences from spatial
studies combining DM I and DM II are also useful for the purpose of this
review.” Lines 112-116.
We have removed the technical details of model specification from the main
body of the manuscript and placed these details in Appendix A.
The definition of 'spatial' seems to be very general...some models dont have We have clarified our definition of “spatial” in the Introduction: “We define
spatial components in them but do have uncorrelated areal effects (eg spatial studies as studies involving aggregate or point-level spatial
3.1.1). information. This broad definition includes ecological and multilevel studies,
hence they need to define clearly what they mean. and models with correlated and uncorrelated spatial effects.” Lines 33-35.
Specific Comments This has been changed, Line 74
Page 2 l47 'Diagnosis of diabetes.....' ..'diagnosis of several....'
Page 5 l162 McMC We believe that MCMC is the correct abbreviation for Markov Chain Monte
Carlo rather than McMC
Page 5 l162-165....this sentence is not clear at all. We have simplified this sentence to: “A Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)
approach was used to simultaneously model study participation and
diabetes prevalence using a Poisson model.” Lines 223-225
Page 5 l171 ICAR Multivariate conditional autoregressive (MCAR) is the abbreviation used by
the authors of the referenced study and has not been changed (Lines 232-
233)
Page 9 l281 '....undertaken to assess..' This has been changed, Line 353
Society Open
