Incubator-independent cell-culture perfusion platform for
continuous long-term microelectrode array
electrophysiology and time-lapse imaging
Dirk Saalfrank, Anil Krishna Konduri, Shahrzad Latifi, Rouhollah Habibey, Asiyeh Golabchi,
Aurel Vasile Martiniuc, Alois Knoll, Sven Ingebrandt and Axel Blau
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150031.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150031
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150031.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Liang Guo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript addressed an important technical challenge on continuous, long-term
electrophysiological studies using cell cultures. The authors offered a simple, low-cost solution
with a simple benchtop cell culture perfusion system adaptable to commercial MEA and imaging
systems. The device was demonstrated for two exemplary proof-of-concept long-term MEA
studies on hippocampal networks. A maximum culture length of 77 days at ambient conditions
was reported. Novel insights were drawn from these studies on how the cells were affected by
different perfusion schemes. The experiments were well designed, the results are sound, and the
manuscript is very well written. Therefore, I recommend for acceptance in its current form.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Thomas DeMarse)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Though seemingly simple, this type of device is actually an incredibly difficult system to create.
In fact, support of a culture for more than 30+ days is extraordinary! Having conducted
recordings with MEAs for years one of the most problematic issues we face is gathering truly
long term recordings. I suspect this system may be the answer to that problem. I do have a few
additional questions though:
Minor: 30 spikes in 12 hours to be considered active? Should that be minutes,not hours?
Major:You report that "In a total of 15 perfusion experiments, 4 lasted less than 11 days, 8
between 11 and 40 days, and 3 between 41 and 77 days." In those cultures that remained viable
for over 30 days did you see any evidence of changes in the pattern of growth near the injection
3
ports? (mechanical shear and chemical flow has sometimes been used as a guide for growth
dynamics in the literature). Do you feel this was specific to the extremely slow flow rate
parameter?
Minor: Figure 4 caption reads: "however, it had an apparent offset of about seven days. (c and d)"
seems to imply that by profusing the culture you created a differential growth pattern when I
think you mean to say is that the growth pattern was simply time-shifted due to plating times. Is
that correct?
Minor: Also: why choose a culture that was exposed to a power black out? If possible a normal
trajectory should be used as Figure 4a..
Minor: I note elaborate efforts in your designs to sterilize media AFTER it has left the culture
chamber on its way to the waste container.. I take it you had problems with back flow in your
design that would contaminate the culture? Or was this simply precautionary?
Major: Design question: Can cultures in your system be run in parallel i.e. one pump supplies
multiple culture or will a dedicated apparatus (such as those in Figure 2) be required per culture?
If it is per culture, will that dramatically increase the cost?
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supporting data are largely in the supplementary material but CAD drawings (e.g. SolidWorks
files, CAD files) of the devices should be provided for download permanently.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In their manuscript the authors describe a new version of a system for the incubation of cell
cultures grown on microelectrode arrays with continuous perfusion without dedicated cell
culture incubators, e.g. on a microscope stage or so. They compare intermittent automated
exchange of culture medium (bolus exchange) with continuous perfusion at very low rates. They
further compare advantages and disadvantages of several perfusion configurations.
4
A system like this in general would be useful but its functionality is not shown convincingly in
the manuscript. The data shown are essentially anecdotal; the authors provide only examples of
recordings, none of which has any statistical analysis that would show if and how this systems
has advantages over others. Although the authors claim that the system allows long-term
incubation only one of 15 cultures survives to 77 DIV, the second longest incubation is 41 DIVs,
suggesting that the conditions may not be optimal after all. A comparison of various
immunohistochem. stains is claimed to show the similarity of cultures grown with continuous
perfusion and conventional incubation in different buffer types, but this similarity is quite
superficial, astrocyte and neurite growth is clearly different, quantitative analyses are missing.
Differences in cell aggregation again are only shown as exemplary micrographs, without any
quantitative analysis.
Surprisingly, the authors even selected a sample in which 1.5 days of power failure led to drastic
changes in neuronal activity – it is obscure what this is supposed to prove.
Since the authors apparently tested a number of superfusion configurations, buffer compositions
and incubation paradigms it is not always clear which configuration yields what quality of
results. Given the rather large number of parameters varied and only 15 perfusion experiments
there is likely not enough data to do any statistically relevant analyses to show if the perfusion
system performs well.
Overall much more work is required to substantiate the claims made.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150031)
01-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Blau,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Incubator-independent cell culture perfusion
platform for continuous long-term microelectrode array electrophysiology and time-lapse
imaging") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper
in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 24-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
5
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Ms Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
I would recommend the authors responding to the criticisms made by reviewer 2
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript addressed an important technical challenge on continuous, long-term
electrophysiological studies using cell cultures. The authors offered a simple, low-cost solution
with a simple benchtop cell culture perfusion system adaptable to commercial MEA and imaging
systems. The device was demonstrated for two exemplary proof-of-concept long-term MEA
studies on hippocampal networks. A maximum culture length of 77 days at ambient conditions
was reported. Novel insights were drawn from these studies on how the cells were affected by
different perfusion schemes. The experiments were well designed, the results are sound, and the
manuscript is very well written. Therefore, I recommend for acceptance in its current form.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In their manuscript the authors describe a new version of a system for the incubation of cell
cultures grown on microelectrode arrays with continuous perfusion without dedicated cell
culture incubators, e.g. on a microscope stage or so. They compare intermittent automated
exchange of culture medium (bolus exchange) with continuous perfusion at very low rates. They
further compare advantages and disadvantages of several perfusion configurations.
A system like this in general would be useful but its functionality is not shown convincingly in
the manuscript. The data shown are essentially anecdotal; the authors provide only examples of
recordings, none of which has any statistical analysis that would show if and how this systems
has advantages over others. Although the authors claim that the system allows long-term
incubation only one of 15 cultures survives to 77 DIV, the second longest incubation is 41 DIVs,
suggesting that the conditions may not be optimal after all. A comparison of various
immunohistochem. stains is claimed to show the similarity of cultures grown with continuous
perfusion and conventional incubation in different buffer types, but this similarity is quite
superficial, astrocyte and neurite growth is clearly different, quantitative analyses are missing.
Differences in cell aggregation again are only shown as exemplary micrographs, without any
quantitative analysis.
Surprisingly, the authors even selected a sample in which 1.5 days of power failure led to drastic
changes in neuronal activity – it is obscure what this is supposed to prove.
Since the authors apparently tested a number of superfusion configurations, buffer compositions
and incubation paradigms it is not always clear which configuration yields what quality of
results. Given the rather large number of parameters varied and only 15 perfusion experiments
7
there is likely not enough data to do any statistically relevant analyses to show if the perfusion
system performs well.
Overall much more work is required to substantiate the claims made.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
Though seemingly simple, this type of device is actually an incredibly difficult system to create.
In fact, support of a culture for more than 30+ days is extraordinary! Having conducted
recordings with MEAs for years one of the most problematic issues we face is gathering truly
long term recordings. I suspect this system may be the answer to that problem. I do have a few
additional questions though:
Minor: 30 spikes in 12 hours to be considered active? Should that be minutes,not hours?
Major:You report that "In a total of 15 perfusion experiments, 4 lasted less than 11 days, 8
between 11 and 40 days, and 3 between 41 and 77 days." In those cultures that remained viable
for over 30 days did you see any evidence of changes in the pattern of growth near the injection
ports? (mechanical shear and chemical flow has sometimes been used as a guide for growth
dynamics in the literature). Do you feel this was specific to the extremely slow flow rate
parameter?
Minor: Figure 4 caption reads: "however, it had an apparent offset of about seven days. (c and d)"
seems to imply that by profusing the culture you created a differential growth pattern when I
think you mean to say is that the growth pattern was simply time-shifted due to plating times. Is
that correct?
Minor: Also: why choose a culture that was exposed to a power black out? If possible a normal
trajectory should be used as Figure 4a..
Minor: I note elaborate efforts in your designs to sterilize media AFTER it has left the culture
chamber on its way to the waste container.. I take it you had problems with back flow in your
design that would contaminate the culture? Or was this simply precautionary?
Major: Design question: Can cultures in your system be run in parallel i.e. one pump supplies
multiple culture or will a dedicated apparatus (such as those in Figure 2) be required per culture?
If it is per culture, will that dramatically increase the cost?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150031)
See Appendix A.
ppendix A
Axel Blau, Dr. rer. nat., Team Leader
Enabling Technologies for Neuroscience (ETfN) Group
Dept. of Neuroscience and Brain Technologies (NBT)
The Italian Institute of Technology (IIT)
Central Research Labs (CRL), Via Morego 30
16163 Genoa, Italy
+39 010 7178 1729 (office)
+39 010 7178 1230 (fax)
axel.blau@iit.it
Genoa, April 13th 2015
s Emilie Aimé
yal Society Open Science
e Royal Society
9 Carlton House Terrace
ndon, SW1Y 5AG
gland
sponse to Decision Letter for manuscript ID RSOS-150031 - ‘Incubator-independent cell culture perfusion platform
r continuous long-term microelectrode array electrophysiology and time-lapse imaging‘
ar Ms Aimé,
ar members of the editorial board,
ank you very much for having considered our manuscript for review. We would like to thank the reviewers for both
eir positive and critical feedback. We address each of them on the subsequent pages. We hope that our answers
fficiently explain our intentions and the scope of the presented study to justify its publication. As suggested by
viewer 3, the otherwise original manuscript now contains a minor modification of figure caption 4 to increase
rity. We are confident that readers will welcome the presented information and benefit from such system in their
n research context.
anks again and kind regards in the name of all authors,
Fondazione Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia Italian Institute of Technology
Sede Legale: Via Morego, 30 · 16163 Genova Uffici di Roma: Via Sicilia, 194 · 00187 Roma
Tel. +39 010 7178 1 Fax. +39 010 7178 1230
C.F. 97329350587 P.I./VAT 09198791007
mments to Author:
sociate Editor's comments:
ould recommend the authors responding to the criticisms made by reviewer 2
viewers' Comments to Author:
viewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
is manuscript addressed an important technical challenge on continuous, long-term electrophysiological
udies using cell cultures. The authors offered a simple, low-cost solution with a simple benchtop cell
lture perfusion system adaptable to commercial MEA and imaging systems. The device was
monstrated for two exemplary proof-of-concept long-term MEA studies on hippocampal networks. A
aximum culture length of 77 days at ambient conditions was reported. Novel insights were drawn from
ese studies on how the cells were affected by different perfusion schemes. The experiments were well
signed, the results are sound, and the manuscript is very well written. Therefore, I recommend for
ceptance in its current form.
Thank you very much for your encouraging feedback. Your positive attitude is very much
appreciated.
viewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
their manuscript the authors describe a new version of a system for the incubation of cell cultures grown
microelectrode arrays with continuous perfusion without dedicated cell culture incubators, e.g. on a
icroscope stage or so. They compare intermittent automated exchange of culture medium (bolus
change) with continuous perfusion at very low rates. They further compare advantages and
sadvantages of several perfusion configurations.
system like this in general would be useful but its functionality is not shown convincingly in the
anuscript. The data shown are essentially anecdotal; the authors provide only examples of recordings,
ne of which has any statistical analysis that would show if and how this systems has advantages over
hers.
The manuscript reports on a feasibility study, which exemplarily demonstrates what kind of
extended multimodal datasets can be collected from a rather demanding culture model (neurons in
serum-free culture) with the presented enabling technology – a simple benchtop perfusion system.
As briefly discussed in the introduction, to our knowledge there are no comparable systems, which
would allow the extended and uninterrupted collection of electrophysiological and imaging data
without running risk of compromising the electronic equipment. While it may be desirable to
compare a higher number of independent experiments for statistical analysis, unfortunately each
successful experiment consumes weeks. The question is, whether the resulting statistical data
would actually substantiate the functionality of the presented system in any better way.
though the authors claim that the system allows long-term incubation only one of 15 cultures survives to
DIV, the second longest incubation is 41 DIVs, suggesting that the conditions may not be optimal after
.
The limited number of long-term experiments was just a consequence of the lack of a second
amplifier and microscope. Therefore, the system had to be made available for other ongoing
research projects in the lab, which limited the temporal timeframe for some of the (shorter)
perfusion experiments. Although we still have to find out whether the culture conditions can be
further optimized (e.g., by selecting a different medium, buffer system or supplement), there are
few (if any) reports on combined electrophysiological and imaging datasets that span over several
weeks as presented in this manuscript (no matter whether they were acquired following standard
cell culture protocols or using any kind of perfusion system).
comparison of various immunohistochem. stains is claimed to show the similarity of cultures grown with
ntinuous perfusion and conventional incubation in different buffer types, but this similarity is quite
perficial, astrocyte and neurite growth is clearly different, quantitative analyses are missing. Differences
cell aggregation again are only shown as exemplary micrographs, without any quantitative analysis.
Observing different network morphologies and compositions is not uncommon even in separate
cell cultures that stem from the very same cell preparation. They mainly result from
inhomogeneities in the composition of the cell suspension or the substrate coatings and the chosen
cell densities as already reported and quantified in the literature (e.g., Cullen et al., 2011; Mooney
et al., 2011). Such inhomogeneities are actually also found in tissue slices (e.g., Nelson 2013). We
agree that their quantitative analysis in the reported perfusion context is a good idea for a follow-
up study.
rprisingly, the authors even selected a sample in which 1.5 days of power failure led to drastic changes in
uronal activity – it is obscure what this is supposed to prove.
At 23 DIPS (a Saturday), the institute (IIT) experienced a complete power blackout, which caused
any electrical instruments to not be functional for several hours. Because we became aware of the
power blackout only after about one day, that day of data is completely missing. We nonetheless
decided to present the data of this culture because it gives an idea on the rather dramatic effects of
a too high medium flux (22 DIPS) and a temperature drop (36.5 °C to room temperature during the
power blackout 23 DIPS) on the subsequent activity profile. In contrast, the time-lapse images
suggest that the network morphology was not equally affected. This example may raise the
awareness in the cell culture community of the caveats when deducing conclusions from just one
type of dataset.
nce the authors apparently tested a number of superfusion configurations, buffer compositions and
cubation paradigms it is not always clear which configuration yields what quality of results. Given the
ther large number of parameters varied and only 15 perfusion experiments there is likely not enough
ta to do any statistically relevant analyses to show if the perfusion system performs well.
The purpose of this manuscript is to feature an innovative technology and to exemplarily
demonstrate what it is capable of. We agree, though, that only the statistics from follow-up studies
will reveal how well the presented system performs on average over time. Nevertheless, as
mentioned above, there are few (if any) reports on combined electrophysiological and imaging
datasets that span over several weeks. We are therefore convinced that readers will welcome the
presented information as is to benefit from such system in their own research context.
erall much more work is required to substantiate the claims made.
Indeed, this is what research and development is all about. In follow-up studies by us (and
hopefully by other early adopters as well) we expect further and more quantitative system
validation under various operational conditions and for different culture models.
viewer: 3
mments to the Author(s)
ough seemingly simple, this type of device is actually an incredibly difficult system to create. In fact,
pport of a culture for more than 30+ days is extraordinary! Having conducted recordings with MEAs for
ars one of the most problematic issues we face is gathering truly long term recordings. I suspect this
stem may be the answer to that problem. I do have a few additional questions though:
Thank you very much for your very positive feedback. We share your enthusiasm.
inor: 30 spikes in 12 hours to be considered active? Should that be minutes,not hours?
30 spikes in 12 hours is the correct threshold. Our choice of setting the activity threshold that low
was rather arbitrary. Its only justification was to make at least some very low activity levels visible
at early days. The following comparative table gives an exemplary taste of the activity levels and
their distribution/evolution during the first 12 recording hours of the first and the 17th recording
day:
Hippocampal culture 32 DIPS
7 DIV (0 DIPS) 24 DIV (17 DIPS)
Channel number Number of spikes Channel number Number of spikes
in 12 hours in 12 hours
ch_12 40 ch_12 7,795
ch_13 12 ch_13 24
ch_14 17 ch_14 61
ch_15 = GND 0 ch_15 = GND 0
ch_16 32 ch_16 49
ch_17 16 ch_17 38,420
ch_21 42 ch_21 131
ch_22 28 ch_22 10,913
ch_23 12 ch_23 398
ch_24 17 ch_24 47
ch_25 17 ch_25 9
ch_26 26 ch_26 34
ch_27 27 ch_27 9,012
ch_28 12 ch_28 16
ch_31 28 ch_31 29,700
ch_32 7 ch_32 173
ch_33 44 ch_33 46
ch_34 21 ch_34 231
ch_35 15 ch_35 4,286
ch_36 29 ch_36 37
ch_37 24 ch_37 25
ch_38 22 ch_38 26,311
ch_41 14 ch_41 10
ch_42 4,478 ch_42 16,011
ch_43 16 ch_43 1,627
ch_44 13 ch_44 5,050
ch_45 28 ch_45 25
ch_46 10 ch_46 17
ch_47 31 ch_47 79
ch_48 31 ch_48 137
ch_51 13 ch_51 1,661
ch_52 11 ch_52 37,320
ch_53 8 ch_53 12
ch_54 15 ch_54 33
ch_55 7 ch_55 5,364
ch_56 19 ch_56 1,914
ch_57 26 ch_57 36
ch_58 11 ch_58 5
ch_61 116 ch_61 60
ch_63 42 ch_63 53
ch_64 27 ch_64 40
ch_65 19 ch_65 19
ch_66 28 ch_66 14
ch_67 8 ch_67 18
ch_68 53 ch_68 21
ch_71 13 ch_71 16
ch_72 19 ch_72 9
ch_73 20 ch_73 19
ch_74 24 ch_74 99
ch_75 9 ch_75 6
ch_76 16 ch_76 138
ch_77 32 ch_77 33
ch_78 1,679 ch_78 10
ch_82 18 ch_82 41
ch_83 25 ch_83 37
ch_84 15 ch_84 546
ch_85 5 ch_85 21,872
ch_86 19 ch_86 13,276
ch_87 8
ajor:You report that "In a total of 15 perfusion experiments, 4 lasted less than 11 days, 8 between 11 and
days, and 3 between 41 and 77 days." In those cultures that remained viable for over 30 days did you
e any evidence of changes in the pattern of growth near the injection ports? (mechanical shear and
emical flow has sometimes been used as a guide for growth dynamics in the literature). Do you feel this
as specific to the extremely slow flow rate parameter?
This is an interesting question. Unfortunately, due to the chosen microscopy objective (5x), the
field of view of the camera did not cover the injection site or the outlet. We therefore did not
collect any images that may reveal the answer. In the slow-flow perfusion regime (77 DIPS
experiment), the maximum perfusion rate was 250 µL per day, which corresponds to 174 nL/min or
~3 nL/s. This volume entered through a tube with inner diameter of 1.5 mm (~1.8 mm2 area) at a
height of about 600 µm above the cell carpet. Thus, the ‘buffer’ volume in direct vicinity to the tube
entry and the cell carpet was approximately 1 mm3 or 1 µL, which is about 300 times larger than
the entering medium volume per second. We therefore do not expect the cells to experience any
physiologically relevant shear stress. Because the medium flow is almost laminar in these caps (as
an unpublished video sequence with ink (at much higher flow rates of ~50 µL/s) suggested), the
flow is rather evenly directed along the central line between the inlet and the outlet (which also
crosses the electrode matrix). Medium reaches the periphery of the caps mostly by slow diffusion.
If that central flow had caused any shear stress, it should have been visible in the time-lapse movies
also in the central region. In that case, we would probably have seen a directional displacement of
the cell carpet over time. Instead, the movies only reveal cellular motility/dislocation without
directional preference.
In the timed perfusion (opening of a pinch valve, 32 DIPS experiment), about 200 µl medium
entered into the chamber within 4-6 seconds. The dramatic decrease in activity within a few
minutes thereafter suggested that the freshly entering medium had reached the cells on the
electrode matrix in short time, which led to a clear (electro-)physiological signature. But also in this
case, no unidirectional cell displacement was visible over the entire imaging period.
inor: Figure 4 caption reads: "however, it had an apparent offset of about seven days. (c and d)" seems to
ply that by profusing the culture you created a differential growth pattern when I think you mean to say
that the growth pattern was simply time-shifted due to plating times. Is that correct?
Depending on the preparation and culture composition, different cultures become active at varying
DIVs (usually ranging between ~7 DIV to 21 DIV), no matter whether they are in the perfusion
system or kept in a classical incubator. The cited statement in the figure caption actually referred to
the much slower growth of the cumulative number of spikes during the first seven recording days
in Fig. 4b compared to that depicted in Fig. 4a despite the fact that both cultures showed first
activity at 7 DIV. This slower growth could be purely accidental (due to above-mentioned inter-
culture variability) or have to do with the fact that the first culture was kept in the incubator for the
first seven days after plating, whereas the second culture was transferred to the perfusion system
on the microscope right after plating. Follow-up experiments will reveal the actual range of activity
evolution variability.
To (hopefully) increase clarity, we changed the phrasing of the sentence to now read: “…; however,
the number of spikes increased more slowly over the first seven days.”
inor: Also: why choose a culture that was exposed to a power black out? If possible a normal trajectory
ould be used as Figure 4a..
At 23 DIPS (a Saturday), the institute (IIT) experienced a complete power blackout, which caused
any electrical instruments to not be functional for several hours. Because we became aware of the
power blackout only after about one day, that day of data is completely missing. We were hesitant
to make any assumptions on how the activity evolved during that time, though. We nonetheless
decided to present the data of this culture because it gives an idea on the rather dramatic effects of
a too high medium flux (22 DIPS) and a temperature drop (36.5 °C to room temperature during the
power blackout 23 DIPS) on the subsequent activity profile. In contrast, the time-lapse images
suggest that the network morphology was not equally affected.
inor: I note elaborate efforts in your designs to sterilize media AFTER it has left the culture chamber on its
ay to the waste container.. I take it you had problems with back flow in your design that would
ntaminate the culture? Or was this simply precautionary?
Cell culture contamination due to medium backflow from a contaminated waste into the culture
chamber occurred during the early testing phase of the perfusion system. While this problem was
solved by a) simply leading the outlet tube (after wiping its end with 70% ethanol and its drying)
through a hole of the sterile Falcon waste tube cap (instead of not using any cap at all) and by b)
lowering the waste level a bit, we used the Ag wire and later the UV LED indeed as a precaution.
ajor: Design question: Can cultures in your system be run in parallel i.e. one pump supplies multiple
lture or will a dedicated apparatus (such as those in Figure 2) be required per culture? If it is per culture,
ll that dramatically increase the cost?
We actually tested successfully a gravity-driven, multi-valve perfusion scheme for timed perfusion,
which is not depicted in Fig. 2. Instead of a solenoid pinch-valve, it made use of a computer-
controllable VICI TN415 8-port multiposition microelectric valve actuator (Valco Instruments Co.
Inc.) with internal PTFE (Teflon) coating of all parts in contact with the fluid. Such multi-position
valve is somewhat less expensive per channel (~20€/channel if bought used/refurbished on e.g. e-
bay) than a collection of individual solenoid valves or a custom-made, stepper-motor-driven syringe
perfusion system (both ~40€/piece). However, if all cultures can be supplied with the same amount
of medium at the same time, a strong solenoid pinch-valve can usually squeeze more than one fluid
line. We never tested to supply several cultures with just one syringe pump, though. We would
expect, that differential pressure in parallel lines will not allow an equal medium distribution. The
syringe pump could be combined with a multiposition valve, though, at the cost of sequentially
rather than constantly perfusing each culture.
Society Open
