Terahertz time-domain spectroscopy of edible oils
Alex Dinovitser, Dimitar G. Valchev and Derek Abbott
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170275.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170275
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 May 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 30 May 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170275.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a an interesting paper which gives details of THz spectroscopy measurements on oil and
to see if degradation would cause changes in the THz spectra. The authors' report no differences
between normal oil and oil degraded by high temperatures. The authors report that other
techniques are used to study oil and also reports by other who have used THz spectroscopy.
Some other THz studies have suggested there are differences between oils, but having looked at
those data I would say they are not statistically significant or the data is questionable. Being
aware of the other studies it would be good if the present authors justified this study better, i.e.
are there chemical changes that might have resonances in the THz frequency range? Why did
they pick the oils they did, what are the chemical differences?
The work uses a standard commercial THz-TDS system, so an extensive system description is not
needed.
Regarding the data presented, There are strong features above 1 THz that are not explained, in
both Fig 3 and 4. Why present both thicknesses? Why did they measure just two thicknesses,
when the setup allows for several ands the absorptions and refractive index could have been
calculated using a differential thickness method; the data could then be presented in one
refractive index and one absorption coefficient graph. Also, error bars should be included.
Reid et al, Phys. Med. Biol. 55 (2010) 4825–4838
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The main purpose of the article is to check spectrum change of oils before and after heating. But,
there are slight differences within the measurement uncertainty limits.
I believe that the research article should contain some remarkable results.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170275)
03-May-2017
Dear Dr Dinovitser,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Terahertz Time-Domain Spectroscopy of Edible Oils") have
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 26-May-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
4
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170275
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a an interesting paper which gives details of THz spectroscopy measurements on oil and
to see if degradation would cause changes in the THz spectra. The authors' report no differences
between normal oil and oil degraded by high temperatures. The authors report that other
techniques are used to study oil and also reports by other who have used THz spectroscopy.
Some other THz studies have suggested there are differences between oils, but having looked at
those data I would say they are not statistically significant or the data is questionable. Being
5
aware of the other studies it would be good if the present authors justified this study better, i.e.
are there chemical changes that might have resonances in the THz frequency range? Why did
they pick the oils they did, what are the chemical differences?
The work uses a standard commercial THz-TDS system, so an extensive system description is not
needed.
Regarding the data presented, There are strong features above 1 THz that are not explained, in
both Fig 3 and 4. Why present both thicknesses? Why did they measure just two thicknesses,
when the setup allows for several ands the absorptions and refractive index could have been
calculated using a differential thickness method; the data could then be presented in one
refractive index and one absorption coefficient graph. Also, error bars should be included.
Reid et al, Phys. Med. Biol. 55 (2010) 4825–4838
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The main purpose of the article is to check spectrum change of oils before and after heating. But,
there are slight differences within the measurement uncertainty limits.
I believe that the research article should contain some remarkable results.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170275)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170275.R1)
30-May-2017
Dear Dr Dinovitser,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Terahertz Time-Domain Spectroscopy
of Edible Oils" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
6
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Thank you for the thorough revision of your manuscript, which we are happy to accept for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
pendix A
nuscript ID: RSOS-170275
e: Regular
e: Terahertz Time-Domain Spectroscopy of Edible Oils
hor: Dinovitser, et al
Andrew Dunn, Senior Publishing Editor, on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe, Subject Editor, Royal Society Open
nce
r Andrew,
Re: Decision on Manuscript ID RSOS-170275
ny thanks for having our paper ID RSOS-170275 reviewed resulting in detailed comments. We are
eful to the reviewers and we have implemented the changes in this revision, which has greatly
roved the paper. Our point-by-point response to the comments is given below.
d regards,
x Dinovitser
itar G. Valchev
ek Abbott
iewer#1: This is a an interesting paper which gives details of THz spectroscopy measurements on oil and to see if
radation would cause changes in the THz spectra. The authors' report no differences between normal oil and oil
raded by high temperatures. The authors report that other techniques are used to study oil and also reports by
r who have used THz spectroscopy. Some other THz studies have suggested there are differences between oils,
having looked at those data I would say they are not statistically significant or the data is questionable. Being
re of the other studies it would be good if the present authors justified this study better, i.e. are there chemical
nges that might have resonances in the THz frequency range?
hor reply: We thank the reviewer for the careful reading of our manuscript and valuable suggestions.
have cited papers that indicate morphological and chemical changes in the oil due to heating and
ng. However, a deep theoretical analysis of how such changes would affect molecular dipole and bond
onances at terahertz frequencies is beyond the scope of this work. Terahertz frequencies can excite
erous low energy transitions, and it is possible that such transitions exist in the terahertz range, but are
ow the noise floor of our measurement.
hor action: We appended the abstract and appropriate sections in the paper to clarify that this null
ult was obtained using THz-TDS equipment with a 55 dB dynamic range.
iewer#1: Why did they pick the oils they did?
hor reply: The specific oils were chosen on the basis of being commonly used cooking oils in frying.
hor action: The introduction and conclusion now highlight the choice of common oils.
iewer#1: What are the chemical differences?
hor reply: There are several chemical and physical differences due to heating above the smoke point.
hor action: The introduction has been expanded and references have been added to summarise the
mical and physical differences induced by heating.
iewer#1: The work uses a standard commercial THz-TDS system, so an extensive system description is not
ded.
hor reply: We agree.
hor action: Superfluous data about the THz-TDS system has been removed
iewer#1: Regarding the data presented, There are strong features above 1 THz that are not explained,
oth Fig 3 and 4.
hor reply: We agree.
hor action: Discussion about the common chemistry of the oils and the common spectral features
ve 1 THz has been added to the discussion section.
iewer#1: Why present both thicknesses?
hor reply: We presented two thicknesses in order to optimize dynamic range of the signal below 1 THz
m), and above 1 THz (1 mm).
hor action: Figure captions have been amended to reflect these considerations.
iewer#1: Why did they measure just two thicknesses, when the setup allows for several ands the
orptions and refractive index could have been calculated using a differential thickness method?
hor reply: The hypothesis was that we would see significant spectral differences, and our experiment
ually included measurements of 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 mm samples of each oil, both cooked and raw. However,
ignificant differences were observed, and presenting the two extreme sample thicknesses best covered
available spectral range, showing the null result.
hor action: Captions and discussion now include justification for the chosen sample thicknesses.
iewer#1: the absorptions and refractive index could have been calculated using a differential thickness
hod?
hor reply: The differential thickness method provides additional sensitivity when the sample needs to
extremely thin or of very low density. The thicknesses of our samples were adjusted to optimize signal in
respective frequency bands.
hor action: No action needed.
iewer#1: Also, error bars should be included.
hor reply: In this work, we present a large amount of data in a compact and concise way, and it would
be practical to include error bars without obstructing the data. However, in principle we agree with the
ewer's view on this matter.
hor action: We have now added information to the captions that indicates the frequency at which error
omes significant relative to the size of the spectral features. At lower frequencies of interest this
omes negligible.
iewer#2: The main purpose of the article is to check spectrum change of oils before and after heating.
, there are slight differences within the measurement uncertainty limits.
hor reply: We agree, the differences are indeed slight. The hypothesis tested was to for significant
erences. It would indeed be interesting for highly sensitive experiments in the future to probe these
ller differences in detail. Our null result motivates future experimentation.
hor action: The hypothesis is now further clarified in the introduction.
iewer#2: I believe that the research article should contain some remarkable results.
hor reply: We have explained in the introduction that this research led to a null results. Null results are
mportance, as the reporting of only remarkable results is well known to produce publication bias. For
reason null results are within the scope of RSOS and are permitted.
hor action: No action required, as RSOS accepts null results.
Society Open
