Viewing images of snakes accelerates making judgments of
their colour in humans: red snake effect as an instance of
‘emotional Stroop facilitation’
Masahiro Shibasaki, Tomoko Isomura and Nobuo Masataka
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140066.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140066
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 May 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st resubmission date: 8 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd resubmission date: 3 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 8 October 2014
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140066.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper examines whether human task performance is affected by threatening stimuli (snakes)
compared to non-threatening stimuli (flowers). It presented humans with images of snakes and
flowers that were color filtered and asked them to indicate the color of the images while ignoring
the snakes or flowers. It found that humans were faster to name the color of the image when the
image contained a snake compared to a flower and this effect was strongest when the images
were red. While the results are interesting, the authors need to add more information about
previous work on this topic so that their results can be understood with respect to previous
studies. It also needs to reorganize the introduction to present both hypotheses to explain the
effects. There were many grammatical errors that need to be corrected, some of which I note
below.
Specific Comments:
Line 65: “due to the limited attentional capacity” should be changed to “due to limited attentional
capacity”
Line 66: What about tasks in which dangerous items are detected faster than non-dangerous
ones? These clearly don’t have a deleterious effect on task performance. E.g., LoBue and
DeLoache 2008.
Line 74-6: “This is considered to be related to the fact that reacting defensively in fearful
situations is crucial for the survival of all animal species, including humans (Homo sapiens) as a
primate species [5].” Could be more succinctly changed to: “This is considered to be related to the
fact that reacting defensively in fearful situations is crucial to the survival of all animals,
including humans [5].”
Line 93: Is it possible that the opposite prediction could be made? Perhaps it is critical for people
to process dangerous situations and they should therefore be able to process such a situation
faster than in response to a neutral situation? You make this prediction in the intro but then say
there is reason to make the opposite prediction in the discussion (Line 192). Thus, it seems that
both of these hypotheses should be put in the intro (emotional Stroop interference and emotional
Stroop facilitation) and then you test which hypothesis fit your data.
Line 96: The authors say that this effect has not yet been investigated. Yet, in line 74, they say that
the stroop effect has often been found in relation to threat-related concerns. A more detailed
introduction on studies that have found threat-related effects would help clarify how the current
study differs from previous ones. They also cite an article which seems to test the same ideas as
them, Constantine et al. 2001, but don’t compare their results to this study. This study also seems
relevant: Mathews & Sebastian 1993.
Line 122: What’s the rationale for using these three different colors?
Line 129: Why was the room familiar to participants? Had they already been tested in previous
studies?
Line 134: “answer the color” should be changed to “indicate the color” Similar change for lines
138-9.
Line 140: Changed to “relation between key pad and color”
Line 150: Did you only analyze data in which the subject correctly indicated the color? How often
did they make the wrong key press?
3
Line 171: How do your results fit with previous work?
Line 173: If the result was significant, then it wasn’t just a “tendency”
Line 180: “were predictable”
Line 182-3: What reasoning?
Line 198: How is this an instance of fight or flight?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Gordon Burghardt)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Could not find any supplementary data, but I have no concerns
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
I think this is a fine and clever experiment. It shows that snakes photos are more quickly color
labeled and red is the fastest. I do have a few comments. line 80, venomous, not poisonous is used
today for all venomous snakes. line 100 and throughout. while I appreciate that the theory was
not supported, I would not have made the prediction. the source seems to be a psychologist who
does not think ethologically or from an evolutionary perspective. Evolved dangerous stimuli
should be more rapidly and less cognitively responded to. See all the work on thinking fast and
thinking slow. Furthermore, work by Isbell and others suggest that snake recognition can even
occur prior to awareness. All this would lead me to predict that snakes, and the color red (for
which there is also data on it being a signal for danger) would be more rapidly attended to. Thus,
I strongly urge the authors to put their findings into a broader ecological/ethological context. The
authors start to go this way at the end of the last paragraph, but the discussion should be stronger
and more focused, in my opinion. The age difference could also merit some discussion. Children
are often less fearful of snakes than adults and that could explain their overall longer reaction
time; however the short mention of developmental change does not discuss the possible roles of
experience, maturation, socialization, etc. that may be operative. Other then these points of
discussion, I find this a well-carried out experiment that merits publication and adds to the
growing literature on reactions to snakes in human and nonhuman animals.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter
03-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Masataka
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140066 entitled
"Viewing images of snakes accelerates making judgments of their color in humans: Red snake
effect as an instance of ‘emotional Stroop facilitation’" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments below. The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended
publication, but also suggest some revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to
respond to the comments and revise your manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is
very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the revised version of your manuscript
within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know
immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
label_version_2
RSOS-140066.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
26-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Masataka,
Manuscript ID RSOS-140066.R1 entitled "Viewing images of snakes accelerates making
judgments of their color in humans: Red snake effect as an instance of ‘emotional Stroop
facilitation’" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The
comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.
The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest some revisions to your
manuscript. The authors say in your cover letter to the revised version that you have addressed
comments but the reviewer doesn't think so, despite the rec to accept with minor revision.
Therefore, I invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
The English still needs improvement, according to the reviews, and so we must ask you please to
have a native English speaker familiar with the science help you to revise it.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Center, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You may also click the below link to start the revision process (or continue the process if you have
already started your revision) for your manuscript. If you use the below link you will not be
required to login to ScholarOne Manuscripts.
http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos?URL_MASK=a5b54c88b11243968321c5abdddcbc85
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, revise your manuscript using a word processing program and save it on your computer.
Please also highlight the changes to your manuscript within the document by using the track
changes mode in MS Word or by using bold or colored text.
Once the revised manuscript is prepared, you can upload it and submit it through your Author
Center.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the reviewer(s) in the space provided. You can use this space to document any changes you make
to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please
be as specific as possible in your response to the reviewer(s).
IMPORTANT: Your original files are available to you when you upload your revised manuscript.
Please delete any redundant files before completing the submission.
Because we are trying to facilitate timely publication of manuscripts submitted to Royal Society
Open Science, your revised manuscript should be submitted by 18-Oct-2014. If it is not possible
6
for you to submit your revision by this date, we may have to consider your paper as a new
submission.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision.
Sincerely,
Dr Kevin Padian
Subject Editor,
Royal Society Open Science
kpadian@berkeley.edu
label_version_3
RSOS-140066.R2 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
Responses to the comments of Reviewer: 1
#It’s not clear why the two hypotheses are stated as stemming from a psychological perspective
vs. an evolutionary perspective. Psychological perspectives can include evolutionary ideas.
We agree with this comment and have withdrawn this phrase. Instead, we have cited previous
study regarding Stroop effects (Mathews and Sebastian, 1993) and documented that we designed
our current study on the basis of their findings, as “Indeed, suggestive empirical evidence for this
hypothesis has been presented by the findings of a previous study concerning snake fear that
were obtained with the textual emotional Stroop paradigm [18]. In the study, the participants
with such biologically adaptive fear were tested on words related to snaked (e.g., cobra), to a
general threat (e.g., fail), or to a neutral household theme (e.g., spoon). They were tested in the
presence of a boa constrictor (and were told to see how close they could get to the snake). Under
these conditions, they did not find, within the color-naming latency data, the predicted emotional
Stroop intereference in patients with anxiety disorders. These findings were confirmed by others
later [19]. Based on these results, the present study was designed to determine which of the two
predictions fit the data we would collect, using the pictorial emotional Stroop paradigm [20-22].”
#Just because these colors have been used by previous researchers (“The rationale has been noted
in Line 133-134 as “These three colors were chosen because they have been extensively used as
stimuli by previous psychological research [15-17].”
”) doesn’t provide a very convincing argument for why they were used in this study.
We have documented that these color have been used in many studies concerning Stroop effects
as standard stimuli.
#There is still little incorporation of previous work into the manuscript. In fact, they only cite 21
papers, which is very few considering that this is a common paradigm. And, citing Darwin’s
quotations are interesting, but there is empirical work that can support the claims in this paper
without needing to rely on anecdotal quotations. It’s not clear, for example, how Darwin’s quote
supports your fight or flight argument. A deeper presentation of the literature is needed
throughout the introduction and discussion. They also cite an article that seems to test the same
ideas as them, Constantine et al. 2001, but don’t compare their results to this study.
We have expanded our discussion with much more literatures concerning the present findings as
“To the best of our knowledge, the current study is the first attempt to systematically test a
pictorial emotional Stroop paradigm, using snake images, except for one preliminary study [20].
The purpose of the preliminary study was to develop the experimental protocol. Since the
number of the participants included in the study was limited, it is difficult to compare the present
7
findings to that study. Nevertheless, they appear to be in accordance with the results of a
previous study [6] that reported the acceleration of color naming in healthy students on exposure
to an anxiety-producing film. Moreover, subsidiary data collected from healthy participants
involved in a psychopathological study as a control group present evidence that strongly
supports our findings [26]. The study showed that latency to color-naming was longer for
threatening words than for non-threatening words in patients with anxiety disorders, but that the
latency was longer for non-threatening words than for threatening words in healthy adults. The
authors of the study did not provide any explanation for the results. Taken together with these
findings, however, the results of the current study indicate that as far as healthy adults and
children concerned, they are more adept at avoidance when being exposed to evolved dangerous
stimuli, by responding to less cognitively.”
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No.
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
It’s not clear why the two hypotheses are stated as stemming from a psychological perspective vs.
an evolutionary perspective. Psychological perspectives can include evolutionary ideas. Just
because these colors have been used by previous researchers (“The rationale has been noted in
Line 133-134 as “These three colors were chosen because they have been extensively used as
stimuli by previous psychological research [15-17].” ”) doesn’t provide a very convincing
argument for why they were used in this study. There is still little incorporation of previous work
into the manuscript. In fact, they only cite 21 papers, which is very few considering that this is a
common paradigm. And, citing Darwin’s quotations are interesting, but there is empirical work
that can support the claims in this paper without needing to rely on anecdotal quotations. It’s not
clear, for example, how Darwin’s quote supports your fight or flight argument. A deeper
presentation of the literature is needed throughout the introduction and discussion. They also cite
an article that seems to test the same ideas as them, Constantine et al. 2001, but don’t compare
their results to this study. There are still many grammatical errors throughout.
ppendix A
esponses to the comments of Reviewer: 1
E: General Comments:
his paper examines whether human task performance is affected by threatening
timuli (snakes) compared to non-threatening stimuli (flowers). It presented
umans with images of snakes and flowers that were color filtered and asked them
o indicate the color of the images while ignoring the snakes or flowers. It found
hat humans were faster to name the color of the image when the image contained
snake compared to a flower and this effect was strongest when the images were
ed. While the results are interesting, the authors need to add more information
bout previous work on this topic so that their results can be understood with
espect to previous studies. It also needs to reorganize the introduction to present
oth hypotheses to explain the effects. There were many grammatical errors that
eed to be corrected, some of which I note below.
We agree with this comment, and have reorganized the entire Introduction.
amely, we have presented two predictions about effects of fear upon task
erformance; whether color judgments are interfered by fear or facilitated by fear,
eferring to the recent findings of snake detection studies and the book of Darwin
Line 93-105) as “Considering all these findings, one may be led to reason from a
sychological perspective that humans would need to spend more time to make judgments
bout the color of images of snakes than they would need to make judgments about the
olor of images of neutral stimuli such as flowers. From an ethological or an evolutionary
erspective, however, one may make the opposite prediction; evolved dangerous stimuli
hould be more rapidly and less cognitively responded to. According to this hypothesis,
ne can predict that viewing images of snakes accelerates making judgments of their color.
lthough such possibility has not been experimentally explored so far, this appears to be
onsistent with the recent findings that snake recognition can even occur in humans prior to
wareness [7, 9, 11, 12]. In fact, Darwin [14] has already claimed the possibility, stating
hat “fear often acts at first as a powerful stimulant,” and that “a man or animal driven
hrough terror of desperation, is endowed with wonderful strength.”
rammatical errors have been corrected.
E: Specific Comments:
ine 65:
due to the limited attentional capacity” should be changed to “due to limited
ttentional capacity”
es, the section has been corrected as suggested (Line 65).
ine 66: What about tasks in which dangerous items are detected faster than non-
angerous ones? These clearly don’t have a deleterious effect on task
erformance. E.g., LoBue and DeLoache 2008.
We agree with this comment, and have stated that the prediction about effects of
ear upon task performance made from an ethological or an evolutionary
erspective is confirmed by the findings that snake recognition can even occur in
umans prior to awareness (Line 101-102) as “this appears to be consistent with the
ecent findings that snake recognition can even occur in humans prior to awareness [7, 9,
1, 12].”
ine 74-6: “This is considered to be related to the fact that reacting defensively in
earful situations is crucial for the survival of all animal species, including humans
Homo sapiens) as a primate species [5].”
ould be more succinctly changed to:
This is considered to be related to the fact that reacting defensively in fearful
ituations is crucial to the survival of all animals, including humans [5].”
es, we have corrected the sentence as suggested (Line 74-76).
ine 93: Is it possible that the opposite prediction could be made? Perhaps it is
ritical for people to process dangerous situations and they should therefore be
ble to process such a situation faster than in response to a neutral situation?
ou make this prediction in the intro but then say there is reason to make the
pposite prediction in the discussion (Line 192). Thus, it seems that both of these
ypotheses should be put in the intro (emotional Stroop interference and emotional
troop facilitation) and then you test which hypothesis fit your data. Line 96: The
uthors say that this effect has not yet been investigated. Yet, in line 74, they say
hat the stroop effect has often been found in relation to threat-related concerns. A
ore detailed introduction on studies that have found threat-related effects would
elp clarify how the current study differs from previous ones. They also cite an
rticle which seems to test the same ideas as them, Constantine et al. 2001, but
on’t compare their results to this study. This study also seems relevant: Mathews
Sebastian 1993.
We agree with this comment, and have reorganized the entire Introduction.
amely, we have presented two predictions about effects of fear upon task
erformance; whether color judgments are interfered by fear or facilitated by fear,
eferring to the recent findings of snake detection studies and the book of Darwin
Line 93-105) as “Considering all these findings, one may be led to reason from a
sychological perspective that humans would need to spend more time to make judgments
bout the color of images of snakes than they would need to make judgments about the
olor of images of neutral stimuli such as flowers. From an ethological or an evolutionary
erspective, however, one may make the opposite prediction; evolved dangerous stimuli
hould be more rapidly and less cognitively responded to. According to this hypothesis,
ne can predict that viewing images of snakes accelerates making judgments of their color.
lthough such possibility has not been experimentally explored so far, this appears to be
onsistent with the recent findings that snake recognition can even occur in humans prior to
wareness [7, 9, 11, 12]. In fact, Darwin [14] has already claimed the possibility, stating
hat “fear often acts at first as a powerful stimulant,” and that “a man or animal driven
hrough terror of desperation, is endowed with wonderful strength.”
ine 122: What’s the rationale for using these three different colors?
he rationale has been noted in Line 133-134 as “These three colors were chosen
ecause they have been extensively used as stimuli by previous psychological research [15-
7].”
ine 129: Why was the room familiar to participants? Had they already been tested
n previous studies?
he reason for that has been noted in Line 141-143 as “They were familiar to all of
he participants because they had already been tested in our previous studies there [12, 17]”.
ine 134:“answer the color” should be changed to “indicate the color” Similar
hange for lines 138-9.
Answer” has been replaced by “Indicate”, as suggested.
ine 140: Changed to “relation between key pad and color”
he sentence has been corrected as suggested.
ine 150: Did you only analyze data in which the subject correctly indicated the
olor? How often did they make the wrong key press?
We have documented that we had only analyzed dada in which the participants
orrectly indicated. In addition, we have reported the error rates (Line 163-164) as
We only analyzed data in which the participants correctly indicated the color. Mean error
ates were 4.24 % for the adult participants and 2.78 % for the child participants”.
ine 171: How do your results fit with previous work?
t the beginning of Discussion, we have reported that our data have fitted with the
rediction made from an ethological or a evolutionary perspective.
ine 173: If the result was significant, then it wasn’t just a “tendency”
We have removed the expression of “tendency”.
ine 180: “were predictable”
We have corrected the sentence as suggested.
ine 182-3: What reasoning?
his section has been rephrased (Line 194-200) as “These findings about the
elationship between RT and the color of the stimuli were predictable because accumulating
vidence has indicated that a stimulus presented in red draws attention more readily than
he same stimulus presented in other colors, such as green or blue [19]. Nevertheless,
iewing snake images, which can capture attention more readily than flower images, have
acilitated naming the color of those images. As a result, images of red snakes were those
ost rapidly responded to by the participants”.
ine 198: How is this an instance of fight or flight?
he instance of fight or flight has been explained, having cited Darwin’s statement
Line 211-214) as “Darwin [14] himself also noted fear as that “soon induces utter,
elpless prostration, as if in consequence of, or in association with, the most violent and
rolonged attempts to escape from the danger.”
esponses to the coments of Reviewer: 2
ne 80, venomous, not poisonous is used today for all venomous snakes.
he word has been replaced as suggested.
ne 100 and throughout. while I appreciate that the theory was not supported, I
ould not have made the prediction. the source seems to be a psychologist who
oes not think ethologically or from an evolutionary perspective. Evolved
angerous stimuli should be more rapidly and less cognitively responded to. See
ll the work on thinking fast and thinking slow. Furthermore, work by Isbell and
thers suggest that snake recognition can even occur prior to awareness. All this
ould lead me to predict that snakes, and the color red (for which there is also data
n it being a signal for danger) would be more rapidly attended to. Thus, I strongly
rge the authors to put their findings into a broader ecological/ethological context.
he authors start to go this way at the end of the last paragraph, but the discussion
hould be stronger and more focused, in my opinion.
We agree with this comment, and have reorganized the entire Introduction.
amely, we have presented two predictions about effects of fear upon task
erformance; whether color judgments are interfered by fear or facilitated by fear,
eferring to the recent findings of snake detection studies and the book of Darwin
Line 93-105) as “Considering all these findings, one may be led to reason from a
sychological perspective that humans would need to spend more time to make judgments
bout the color of images of snakes than they would need to make judgments about the
olor of images of neutral stimuli such as flowers. From an ethological or an evolutionary
erspective, however, one may make the opposite prediction; evolved dangerous stimuli
hould be more rapidly and less cognitively responded to. According to this hypothesis,
ne can predict that viewing images of snakes accelerates making judgments of their color.
lthough such possibility has not been experimentally explored so far, this appears to be
onsistent with the recent findings that snake recognition can even occur in humans prior to
wareness [7, 9, 11, 12]. In fact, Darwin [14] has already claimed the possibility, stating
hat “fear often acts at first as a powerful stimulant,” and that “a man or animal driven
hrough terror of desperation, is endowed with wonderful strength.”
he age difference could also merit some discussion. Children are often less
earful of snakes than adults and that could explain their overall longer reaction
me; however the short mention of developmental change does not discuss the
ossible roles of experience, maturation, socialization, etc. that may be operative.
We agree with this comment, and have mentioned about the age difference at the
nal section of our manuscript (Line 218-223) as “Finally, the fact should be noticeable
hat emotional Stroop facilitation observed here was more robust in the adult participants
han in the child participants. It is well known that children are often less fearful of snakes
han adults [7, 8]. Although that could partly explain overall longer RTs in the children, the
ossible roles of experience, maturation, socialization, etc. that may be operative are
nknown yet. Apparently this is the issue to be investigated in the near future”.
Society Open
