A helical perylene diimide-based acceptor for non-fullerene
organic solar cells: synthesis, morphology and exciton
dynamics
Li Chen, Mingliang Wu, Guangwei Shao, Jiahua Hu, Guiying He, Tongle Bu, Jian-Peng Yi
and Jianlong Xia
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172041.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172041
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172041.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this manuscript, Xia and coworkers reported the use of hPDI2-CN2 as acceptor in OSCs. The
fabricated devices show PCE of 1.42 - 2.76 % after thermal annealing or 1, 8 diiodoctane additive
treatment. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow.
The concept is not completely novel and an extension of earlier work by Nukolls and coworkers
(JACS, 2014, 136, 15215-15221). In this paper, the authors used hPDI2CN2 as an acceptor
molecule instead of hPDI2. However, the low yield of hPDI2CN2 (~28 %) and low PCE values of
fabricated devices (compared to the earlier works; JACS, 2014, 136, 15215-15221 and Nat. Comm.
2015, 6, 8242) reduces the impact of the work a bit.
Comment:
1. In the introduction, the authors need to discuss the initial motivation of introducing CN groups
in PDI2.
2. ESI: Synthesis of hPDI2CN2 part is not well written. [such as 1) how much mmol of hPDI2Br2
and CuCN were taken. 3) Eluent solvent for the column is not mentioned. 3) “The mixture was
cooled overnight and then poured into 200 mL water and stirred overnight.” Is the mixture
needed to be cooled for overnight and again stirring in water for another overnight?]
3. Authors need to do FTIR on hPDI2CN2 for the characterization of CN groups.
4. Authors need to provide an image of 13C NMR in ESI.
5. The authors need to provide experimental details (functional and basic sets) for the DFT
calculation.
6. Table 1 and ESI: Unit of Jsc need to be corrected.
7. Reference 36 – 39: All the authors of the papers are not listed.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This investigation focus on non-fullerene acceptor hPDI-CN2 for organic solar cell. And further
investigated the influence of thermal annealing and additive for the blend morphology. What the
paper investigated is comprehensive and systematic. Through the PCE for the PDI-based device
is relatively not high enough. I suggest publication of this manuscript after minor revisions as
listed below:
1. The oxidation and reduction potential is not obvious in the CV result, therefore the UPS result
for the hPDI2-CN2 film is necessary for the paper.
2. The J-V result on Table 2 should be further discussed.
3. Through the Jsc is consistent with the EQE, it seems the gap between red line and blue is larger
than that of red and black which is comflict with the Jsc. Please explain this.
4. The SCLC results should be placed as a table.
5. The legend of rms for Fig. 3 should be “RMS” instead.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172041)
07-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Xia:
Title: A Helical Perylene Diimide-based Acceptor for Non-Fullerene Organic Solar Cells:
Synthesis, Morphology, and Exciton Dynamics
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172041
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
4
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172041
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
6
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In this manuscript, Xia and coworkers reported the use of hPDI2-CN2 as acceptor in OSCs. The
fabricated devices show PCE of 1.42 - 2.76 % after thermal annealing or 1, 8 diiodoctane additive
treatment. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow.
The concept is not completely novel and an extension of earlier work by Nukolls and coworkers
(JACS, 2014, 136, 15215-15221). In this paper, the authors used hPDI2CN2 as an acceptor
molecule instead of hPDI2. However, the low yield of hPDI2CN2 (~28 %) and low PCE values of
fabricated devices (compared to the earlier works; JACS, 2014, 136, 15215-15221 and Nat. Comm.
2015, 6, 8242) reduces the impact of the work a bit.
Comment:
1. In the introduction, the authors need to discuss the initial motivation of introducing CN groups
in PDI2.
2. ESI: Synthesis of hPDI2CN2 part is not well written. [such as 1) how much mmol of hPDI2Br2
and CuCN were taken. 3) Eluent solvent for the column is not mentioned. 3) “The mixture was
cooled overnight and then poured into 200 mL water and stirred overnight.” Is the mixture
needed to be cooled for overnight and again stirring in water for another overnight?]
3. Authors need to do FTIR on hPDI2CN2 for the characterization of CN groups.
4. Authors need to provide an image of 13C NMR in ESI.
5. The authors need to provide experimental details (functional and basic sets) for the DFT
calculation.
6. Table 1 and ESI: Unit of Jsc need to be corrected.
7. Reference 36 – 39: All the authors of the papers are not listed.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This investigation focus on non-fullerene acceptor hPDI-CN2 for organic solar cell. And further
investigated the influence of thermal annealing and additive for the blend morphology. What the
paper investigated is comprehensive and systematic. Through the PCE for the PDI-based device
is relatively not high enough. I suggest publication of this manuscript after minor revisions as
listed below:
1. The oxidation and reduction potential is not obvious in the CV result, therefore the UPS result
for the hPDI2-CN2 film is necessary for the paper.
2. The J-V result on Table 2 should be further discussed.
3. Through the Jsc is consistent with the EQE, it seems the gap between red line and blue is larger
than that of red and black which is comflict with the Jsc. Please explain this.
4. The SCLC results should be placed as a table.
5. The legend of rms for Fig. 3 should be “RMS” instead.
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172041)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172041.R1)
27-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Xia:
Title: A Helical Perylene Diimide-based Acceptor for Non-Fullerene Organic Solar Cells:
Synthesis, Morphology, and Exciton Dynamics
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172041.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_5
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Response to the reviewers:
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
In this manuscript, Xia and coworkers reported the use of hPDI2-CN2 as acceptor in
OSCs. The fabricated devices show PCE of 1.42 - 2.76 % after thermal annealing or 1,
8 diiodoctane additive treatment. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow.
The concept is not completely novel and an extension of earlier work by Nukolls and
coworkers (JACS, 2014, 136, 15215-15221). In this paper, the authors used
hPDI2CN2 as an acceptor molecule instead of hPDI2. However, the low yield of
hPDI2CN2 (~28 %) and low PCE values of fabricated devices (compared to the
earlier works; JACS, 2014, 136, 15215-15221 and Nat. Comm. 2015, 6, 8242)
reduces the impact of the work a bit.
Comment:
1. In the introduction, the authors need to discuss the initial motivation of introducing
CN groups in PDI2.
Response: The discussion of this question has been added in the introduction section,
which now read as:
The introduction of subsitituents at bay-region is a favorable modification strategy to
enhance the performance of PDI-based devices. In this strategy, some
electron-withdrawing groups, such as F, CN can bring about increased electron
affinity which results in lower LUMO level and superior electronic properties.
2. ESI: Synthesis of hPDI2CN2 part is not well written. [such as 1) how much mmol
of hPDI2Br2 and CuCN were taken. 3) Eluent solvent for the column is not mentioned.
3) “The mixture was cooled overnight and then poured into 200 mL water and stirred
overnight.” Is the mixture needed to be cooled for overnight and again stirring in
water for another overnight?]
Response: These have been addressed in synthesis section (ESI) , which now read as:
Synthesis of hPDI2-CN2: The compound, hPDI2-Br2, was synthesized according to
those previously reported.1,2 1.5 g hPDI2-Br2 (0.89 mmol) and 0.9 g CuCN (10.12
mmol) was carefully mixed into a 250 mL-round bottom flask. Then the flask was
degassed by N2 gas for 30 minutes. Next, 100 mL DMF was added by syringe and
refluxed for 18 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and then poured into
200 mL water and stirred overnight. Further, the obtained product was extracted with
200 mL DCM and then washed with 300 mL water for three times. After removing the
residual solvent, the crude product was purified through a silica chromatography
(PE:DCM=1:2) and around 400 mg red-purple solid was obtained with a yield of
28.6 %. The alkyl chains linked with the imide nitrogen atoms are very beneficial to
increase the solubility of the molecule in common organic solvents, such as toluene,
chlorobenzene, and dichlorobenzene at room temperature.
3. Authors need to do FTIR on hPDI2CN2 for the characterization of CN groups.
Response: The FTIR spectrum of hPDI2-CN2 has been added in ESI as Fig. S2. The
peak at 2220.2 cm-1 confirm the existence of cyano group.
4. Authors need to provide an image of 13C NMR in ESI.
Response: The 13C NMR spectrum of hPDI2-CN2 has been added in ESI as Fig. S3.
5. The authors need to provide experimental details (functional and basic sets) for the
DFT calculation.
Response: All the details have been added in the characterizations section in the
revision, which read as:
DFT calculations were performed by using the Gaussian 09 software package at the
B3LYP/6-31G(d) level. The alky chains were replaced by methyl groups to reduce the
computation cost. All the optimized ground-state structures were shown to be minima
by the absence of imaginary frequencies.
6. Table 1 and ESI: Unit of Jsc need to be corrected.
Response: The units of Jsc in Table 1 and ESI are corrected. We appreciate the
reviewer to point out this.
7. Reference 36 – 39: All the authors of the papers are not listed.
Response: The authors of reference 36-39 are listed in manuscript at software versions
of both WORD 2010 and WORD 2016.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
This investigation focus on non-fullerene acceptor hPDI-CN2 for organic solar cell.
And further investigated the influence of thermal annealing and additive for the blend
morphology. What the paper investigated is comprehensive and systematic. Through
the PCE for the PDI-based device is relatively not high enough. I suggest publication
of this manuscript after minor revisions as listed below:
1. The oxidation and reduction potential is not obvious in the CV result, therefore the
UPS result for the hPDI2-CN2 film is necessary for the paper.
Response: A new CV result with obvious reduction potential is added in ESI as Fig.
S4. The HOMO and LUMO levels were calculated to be -6.11 eV and -3.98 eV, with a
modest difference to the values before (EHOMO = -6.02 eV, ELUMO = -4.08 eV).
2. The J-V result on Table 2 should be further discussed.
Response: Further discussion on Table S2 is added in the revision, which reads as:
When the active layer was annealed at 100 <U+2103>, the devices showed remarkable
increased fill factor (FF) of 51.8% compared to the value at 80 <U+2103> (FF=38.3 %) as
shown in Table S2. As the annealing temperature was increased to the 160 <U+2103>, the
devices showed further enhanced PCE of 2.45%.
3. Through the Jsc is consistent with the EQE, it seems the gap between red line and
blue is larger than that of red and black which is comflict with the Jsc. Please explain
this.
Response: When take into consideration of the deviation caused by testing
instruments, the modest discrepancy between EQE and JSC results is generally
acceptable. Further more, in the EQE result of Fig. 2, the blue line is close to red one
and larger than black line at 550 nm at which the PTB7-Th:hPDI2-CN2 blend film
shows the strongest light absorption that associate with JSC values.
4. The SCLC results should be placed as a table.
Response: The SCLC results are listed in Table S6 (ESI).
5. The legend of rms for Fig. 3 should be “RMS” instead.
Response: The legends of rms for Fig. 3, Fig. S9, Fig. S13 and Fig. S16 are corrected
as “RMS”.
Society Open
