Surfing the vegetal pole in a small population: extracellular
vertical transmission of an 'intracellular' deep-sea clam
symbiont
Tetsuro Ikuta, Kanae Igawa, Akihiro Tame, Tsuneyoshi Kuroiwa, Haruko Kuroiwa, Yui
Aoki, Yoshihiro Takaki, Yukiko Nagai, Genki Ozawa, Masahiro Yamamoto, Ryusaku
Deguchi, Katsunori Fujikura, Tadashi Maruyama and Takao Yoshida
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160130.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160130
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 21 April 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160130.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I will let the copy editors deal with this.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attached file for my comments to the author. (See Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No problem found
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript #RSOS-160130 by Ikuta et al. reported the localization of an intracellullar deep-
sea clam symbiont on the egg surface. The authors also examined the population size and the
ploidy size. Based on the results, the authors discussed the transmission dynamics of this
obligatory symbiont from evolutionary perspectives. Symbiont transmission is a key to
understand symbiotic systems in general and, indeed, a number of studies have been carried out
in insect-microbe symbioses and plant-microbe symbioses. In this manuscript, the authors work
with a unique symbiotic system, the deep-sea clam Calyptogena okutanii and its obligate
bacterial symbiont, and discovered an interesting unprecedented case of transmission. Although
the data is just a snap shot of a short time window of the development / transmission, the data
presented here are convincing enough for this intractable non-model organism. Extracellular
localization of the symbiont on the egg should represent a novel mode of the transmission of
“intracellular” symbiont. I believe this discovery should have significant impact on the field of
symbiosis biology.
The manuscript is well written and I have only a couple of minor suggestions/comments.
3
Major issues:
(none)
Minor issues:
1) Figure 3: Color gradation of the bar charts in Fig 3 a-c does not make much sense scientifically.
Also different coloring among the charts does not give any additional information. Avoid such a
cosmetic effort for scientific literature.
2) Given the apparent dynamic behavior of the symbiont in the transmission, I am interested in
whether the symbiont has some mobile machinery such as flagellar apparatus. Since the same
group of the authors has already revealed the complete genome sequence of the bacteria, it would
be easy to investigate the gene repertoire. Also, EM pictures could be useful to seek evidence for
or against the existence of such structures. If the authors find something interesting regarding
this issue, they can add some sentences in Discussion part, but it is not a mandatory request to
revise the manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160130)
12-Apr-2016
Dear Dr Ikuta
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160130 entitled
"Surfing the vegetal pole in a small population: extracellular vertical transmission of an
'intracellular' deep-sea clam symbiont" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160130
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Apr-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr David Ferrier):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both reviewers found the manuscript and results extremely interesting and novel. Minor
revisions are suggested, largely involving some slight modifications to the text in order to clarify
some issues, in particular relating to the determination of the exact number of symbiont genomes
per cell.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see attached file for my comments to the author.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript #RSOS-160130 by Ikuta et al. reported the localization of an intracellullar deep-
sea clam symbiont on the egg surface. The authors also examined the population size and the
ploidy size. Based on the results, the authors discussed the transmission dynamics of this
obligatory symbiont from evolutionary perspectives. Symbiont transmission is a key to
understand symbiotic systems in general and, indeed, a number of studies have been carried out
in insect-microbe symbioses and plant-microbe symbioses. In this manuscript, the authors work
with a unique symbiotic system, the deep-sea clam Calyptogena okutanii and its obligate
bacterial symbiont, and discovered an interesting unprecedented case of transmission. Although
the data is just a snap shot of a short time window of the development / transmission, the data
presented here are convincing enough for this intractable non-model organism. Extracellular
localization of the symbiont on the egg should represent a novel mode of the transmission of
6
“intracellular” symbiont. I believe this discovery should have significant impact on the field of
symbiosis biology.
The manuscript is well written and I have only a couple of minor suggestions/comments.
Major issues:
(none)
Minor issues:
1) Figure 3: Color gradation of the bar charts in Fig 3 a-c does not make much sense scientifically.
Also different coloring among the charts does not give any additional information. Avoid such a
cosmetic effort for scientific literature.
2) Given the apparent dynamic behavior of the symbiont in the transmission, I am interested in
whether the symbiont has some mobile machinery such as flagellar apparatus. Since the same
group of the authors has already revealed the complete genome sequence of the bacteria, it would
be easy to investigate the gene repertoire. Also, EM pictures could be useful to seek evidence for
or against the existence of such structures. If the authors find something interesting regarding
this issue, they can add some sentences in Discussion part, but it is not a mandatory request to
revise the manuscript.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160130)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
Ikuta et al. Review Royal Society
Surfing the vegetal pole in a small population: extracellular
vertical transmission of an 'intracellular' deep-sea clam
symbiont
Summary: This study presents data indicating that the chemosynthetic symbionts of C.
okutanii are transmitted via host eggs, on the outside of the plasma membrane. This is a
very exciting finding and is the first report of the apparent route of transmission in a
marine chemosynthetic symbiosis that reproduces by broadcast spawning.
The paper is extremely well written and I appreciate the attention to detail and
explanations (e.g., that the eggs burst in alcohol, rationale for embedding in agarose as
eggs float with animal pole up, and use of E. coli division mutant as control for DNA
measurements. By and large the results and conclusions of the paper are well supported
by the data. However I have a number of comments below, most on clarification of the
methods. The main issues this reviewer has to do with “conclusion” that symbionts only
occur on surface and how the genome copy number per egg was quantified.
Comments:
p.5, line 10: Literature for mixed modes – 1 is correct, 2 is not (Cary, S. C. and
Giovannoni only showed vertical)
p.6, line 2-7: Indicate that you are talking broadly about vertical transmission
mechanisms across different symbiosis types and taxa. This reads like you are talking
about patterns within chemosynthetic symbioses.
p.14, line 9: qPCR assay issues: Did you test specificity to the primers in any way
besides bioinformatically against the Genbank database? How different are they from
the Calyptogena magnifica symbiont? Is the amplified locus single-copy in the
genome? If so, are you sure that only one region is amplified? For example, the
genome for C. okutanii in NCBI has annotations for dnaA and a dnaA family protein,
which might be amplified by those primers. Both of these factors would influence the
symbiont genome copy number detected.
p.15, line 15-16: What is meant that no homologous sequences were found with
blastn? No identical sequences? As homologous refers to things which have a
common ancestor, a BLASTN search should have found the C. magnifica symb dnaA
gene which is a homolog, unless dnaA in C.okutani is extremely different than in
C.mag. It would be helpful for reference to give the %identity to the C. mag
sequence. Overall, the sequence matched C. okutanii, so you can say that the
sequence matched no other taxa besides C. okutani.
p.15-16: qPCR assay – Was only qPCR 1 replicate run per egg? (This appears to be
the case because each egg was preserved in 1 ul of FSW and that was the volume
added to the reaction). If so, indicate this as per guidelines that were stated as
followed in reference 15 (p.17 line 4).
p.16: VIMPCS analysis – Did the strong autofluorescence of eggs (mentioned p. 19 line
5) interfere with acquiring DAPI data? How was this accounted for/ruled out as a
contaminating factor?
P. 18, line 8, 20-13, 41-5, Figure 3 legend. “Short straight line”.
The authors refer to the stained entities (subsequently shown to be bacteria by TEM)
in Fig. 1 as occurring in a “short straight line”. Thus I expected a line of single cells,
presumably producing a line by binary division. While a sort of “line” is seen at low
magnification (Fig 1f), Fig. 1c-e show a cluster of bacteria, approximately oval
shaped, measuring ~100µm x 10-50 µm. Further it appears that fainter staining
covers considerably more area than the intensely stained cluster.
---Is the more faint stain radiating out from the deeply stained cluster also due to Cok
16S probe?
---For “short straight line” please substitute “cluster” or “oval-shaped cluster”.
---Delete “short” and clarify cluster area/size relative to the egg size. (As “short” is
subjective).
P. 19, line 4-7. Electron lucent areas as seen in the gill symbionts are often due to
PHB or PHA (among other possibilities) and not necessarily due to sulfur, which
should be clarified.
P. 19, line 7-10, p. 20, lines 5-8. Detection of bacteria in eggs. Excellent that the
authors state that symbionts were “not found” or “not detected” rather than a
conclusion that “they are not there” (as absence of evidence is not evidence of
absence). But then state “These data indicate that C. okutanii bacteria symbionts are
located on the outer surface of the plasma membrane (p.19, line 8-10)”. This sounds
like the bacteria are only found on the surface.
---Please clarify current data suggest only on surface but could also be inside, just not
detectable under current methods.
---If symbionts also occur in egg, this would affect estimates of genome copy.
---p. 19 and p. 20 details on this aspect should be combined.
p. 20, line 5-8. “Despite extensive observations of more than 30 serial sections of the
ovary…” . While the data presented in the paper are certainly convincing that
bacteria occur on the vegetal pole, as above noted above, bacteria may be in eggs but
not observable, notably if they occur singly. Clarify methods as follow and clarify
findings within this context.
---What is the area of the ovary examined. What percentage area of an entire ovary
would this cover?
---How many animals examined? Section thickness? How many sections per animal
ovary?
---How many oocytes in total were observed?
---How many oocytes were sectioned through the whole oocyte?
---If single bacteria occurred within oocyte rather than cluster, would you be able to
observe in paraffin sections? At the magnifications you used? (This seems unlikely).
--p.19, line 9-10. P. 23, line 11-12.: It is stated that symbionts were located outside
the plasma membrane of spawned eggs. I interpret this to mean that the symbionts
reside within the vitelline envelope since the vitelline envelope is the outermost layer.
This is also mentioned later in paper on p. 23.Is this correct? Please clarify and cite
appropriate figure(s).
p.19 line 12: Was a positive control of any sort run on the eggs that could answer
questions about penetration issues?
p.19 line 13-14: Regarding contamination from seawater, did you control for
symbiont genome presence in the seawater used for spawning? And for symbionts in
seawater a) after placing clam in vessel as symbionts could be coming off
shell/animal, etc., and after spawning? This would increase the number of symbiont
genomes detected relative to cells on the egg surface.
P.22 line 2: I have an issue with this part. The size of the single units shown in Fig. 3h
are about 1 um across. Given that this is the approximate size of the symbiont cell
(e.g. from Table S1), no more than one or two single units, let alone a dozen, could fit
into a symbiont cell. Further, bacterial nucleoids can be compacted, with multiple
“parts” shown with DAPI.
Appendix B
Responses to Reviewer Comments
We would like to thank the reviewers for their critiques and comments, which have
elped us to greatly improve our manuscript. The specific changes in the manuscript are
escribed below.
Responses to the comments of Reviewer 1
Comment 1: p.5, line 10: Literature for mixed modes – 1 is correct, 2 is not (Cary, S. C.
nd Giovannoni only showed vertical)
Response: Thank you for this pertinent suggestion. We have removed reference 2 (Cary
nd Giomannoni).
Comment 2: p.6, line 2-7: Indicate that you are talking broadly about vertical
ransmission mechanisms across different symbiosis types and taxa. This reads like you
re talking about patterns within chemosynthetic symbioses.
Response: Thank you for this comment. To clarify that we are talking about vertical
ransmission mechanisms across different symbiosis types and taxa in these sentences,
we have revised this part as follows: "Across various taxa, routes of vertical
ransmission differ among symbiotic systems. Intracellular obligate symbionts are
enerally..." in line 2-4 on p.6.
Comment 3: p.14, line 9: qPCR assay issues: Did you test specificity to the primers in
ny way besides bioinformatically against the Genbank database? How different are
hey from the Calyptogena magnifica symbiont? Is the amplified locus single-copy in
he genome? If so, are you sure that only one region is amplified? For example, the
enome for C. okutanii in NCBI has annotations for dnaA and a dnaA family protein,
which might be amplified by those primers. Both of these factors would influence the
ymbiont genome copy number detected.
Response: Thank you for this comment. As described in line 1-4 on p.16, in addition to
he bioinformatic check, we confirmed the specificity of the primers by DNA Sanger
equencing of the amplicons from qPCR. DnaA is a single-copy gene in the symbiont
enome. To clarify this point, we have revised the sentence as follows: "The qPCR
rimers used in this study were designed to amplify a 98-bp fragment of dnaA of the C.
kutanii symbiont, which is a single-copy gene..." in line 11-12 on p.14. Furthermore,
we used a TaqMan probe to increase the specificity of qPCR. By BLAST search, we
onfirmed that no other sequences were detectable using our set of qPCR primers and
robes in the Genbank database including the genome of the C. okutanii symbiont. Thus,
we believe that the qPCR results were not influenced by non-specific detection. We
ave added this information as follows: "The sequence specificity of the primers and
robe was confirmed by comparison to all available sequences on the GenBank
atabase via BLASTN search (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi), and we
onfirmed that no other sequences were detectable using our set of qPCR primers and
robes in the database including the genome sequence of the C. okutanii symbiont" in
ine 16-18 on p.14 and line 1-2 on p.15. The sequence similarities of our forward primer,
everse primer, and probe to the C. magnifica symbiont genome were 85%, 74%, and no
its, respectively.
Comment 4: p.15, line 15-16: What is meant that no homologous sequences were
ound with blastn? No identical sequences? As homologous refers to things which have
common ancestor, a BLASTN search should have found the C. magnifica symb dnaA
ene which is a homolog, unless dnaA in C.okutani is extremely different than in C.mag.
t would be helpful for reference to give the %identity to the C. mag sequence. Overall,
he sequence matched C. okutanii, so you can say that the sequence matched no other
axa besides C. okutani.
Response: We apologize for the lack of clarity here. To clarify our intended meaning,
we have revised the sentence as follows: "In BLASTN searches with the amplicon
equences, the sequence matched no other sequence except for that of dnaA of C.
kutanii." in line 3-4 on p.16.
Comment 5: p.15-16: qPCR assay – Was only qPCR 1 replicate run per egg? (This
ppears to be the case because each egg was preserved in 1 ul of FSW and that was the
olume added to the reaction). If so, indicate this as per guidelines that were stated as
ollowed in reference 15 (p.17 line 4).
Response: As you mentioned, one qPCR replicate was run per egg because of the
imited amount of extracted DNA. To address the technical repeatability and
eproducibility, we quantified dnaA in six respective eggs from five different host
ndividuals. In the revised version of the manuscript, this information has been added in
he Materials and Methods section in line 18 on p.15 and line 1 on p.16.
Comment 6: p.16: VIMPCS analysis – Did the strong autofluorescence of eggs
mentioned p. 19 line 5) interfere with acquiring DAPI data? How was this accounted
or/ruled out as a contaminating factor?
Response: The strong autofluorescence only interfered with the whole-mount
bservation of the egg. In VIMPCS analysis, observation by mounting the egg between
wo cover glasses effectively reduced the influence of the autofluorescence. This
nformation has been added in the Materials and Methods section in line 2-3 on p.17.
Comment 7: P. 18, line 8, 20-13, 41-5, Figure 3 legend. “Short straight line”.
The authors refer to the stained entities (subsequently shown to be bacteria by TEM) in
ig. 1 as occurring in a “short straight line”. Thus I expected a line of single cells,
resumably producing a line by binary division. While a sort of “line” is seen at low
magnification (Fig 1f), Fig. 1c-e show a cluster of bacteria, approximately oval shaped,
measuring ~100µm x 10-50 µm. Further it appears that fainter staining covers
onsiderably more area than the intensely stained cluster.
--Is the more faint stain radiating out from the deeply stained cluster also due to Cok
6S probe?
--For “short straight line” please substitute “cluster” or “oval-shaped cluster”. ---Delete
short” and clarify cluster area/size relative to the egg size. (As “short” is subjective).
Response : Thank you for this comment. As you suggested, the symbionts constitute a
luster, approximately oval shaped, measuring approximately 100 µm × 20-50 µm. This
ize is comparable to that observed during cell number counting with DAPI staining as
hown in Fig. 3d, although the effect of pressing of the egg between the two cover
lasses cannot be neglected. In the revised manuscript, we removed the word "short"
nd revised the sentences as follows: "The signal for the symbiont was detected on the
urface of the egg in an approximately oval-shaped cluster, measuring approximately
00 µm × 20-50 µm..." in line 14-16 on p.18, "..., but they are attached extracellularly
n the outer surface of the egg plasma membrane, exclusively at the vegetal pole,
orming an oval-shaped cluster." in line 2-4 on p.21, "As is the case in the ISH result,
he DAPI signals were detected at the surface of the egg in an approximately
val-shaped cluster." in line 13-15 on p.21, and "The original cluster of the symbiont
ocated in an oval shape on the egg was preserved between..." in line 11-12 on p.40.
Comment 8: P. 19, line 4-7. Electron lucent areas as seen in the gill symbionts are often
ue to PHB or PHA (among other possibilities) and not necessarily due to sulfur, which
hould be clarified.
Response: Thank you for this comment. In the genome of the C. okutanii symbiont,
enes for PHB or PHA synthesis are not present. To address other possibilities, we have
evised the sentence as follows: "Electron transparent vesicles, which might be sites of
lemental sulphur storage..." in line 12-13 on p.19.
Comment 9: P. 19, line 7-10, p. 20, lines 5-8. Detection of bacteria in eggs. Excellent
hat the authors state that symbionts were “not found” or “not detected” rather than a
onclusion that “they are not there” (as absence of evidence is not evidence of absence).
But then state “These data indicate that C. okutanii bacteria symbionts are located on
he outer surface of the plasma membrane (p.19, line 8-10)”. This sounds like the
acteria are only found on the surface.
--Please clarify current data suggest only on surface but could also be inside, just not
etectable under current methods.
--If symbionts also occur in egg, this would affect estimates of genome copy.
--p. 19 and p. 20 details on this aspect should be combined.
Response: Thank you for this pertinent comment. To clarify our intended meaning, we
ave revised the sentence as follows: "Thus, C. okutanii bacterial symbionts were only
ound on the outer surface of the plasma membrane at the vegetal pole of the spawned
ggs." in line 16-18 on p.19. Also, to address the possibility of symbionts being present
n the eggs, we have added a sentence as follows: "At this moment, however, we cannot
ompletely exclude the possibility that the symbionts also occur in the egg cytoplasm."
n line 4-5 on p.21.
Comment 10: p. 20, line 5-8. “Despite extensive observations of more than 30 serial
ections of the ovary...” . While the data presented in the paper are certainly convincing
hat bacteria occur on the vegetal pole, as above noted above, bacteria may be in eggs
ut not observable, notably if they occur singly. Clarify methods as follow and clarify
indings within this context.
--What is the area of the ovary examined. What percentage area of an entire ovary
would this cover?
--How many animals examined? Section thickness? How many sections per animal
vary?
--How many oocytes in total were observed?
--How many oocytes were sectioned through the whole oocyte?
--If single bacteria occurred within oocyte rather than cluster, would you be able to
bserve in paraffin sections? At the magnifications you used? (This seems unlikely).
Response: Thank you for this comment. Information on the approximate dimension of
he ovary and the size of the ovary section has been added in the Material and Methods
ection in line 3-4 on p.8 and line 12 on p.11, respectively. The section thickness was 8
m, and the number of sections per ovary was more than 30 (see line 12-13 on p.11);
herefore, the sections covered a whole oocyte in terms of thickness, as described in the
ext. Several hundred oocytes were observed in one section. This information has been
dded in line 14-15 on p.20. For such systematic serial sectioning and the following ISH
nalysis, which required considerable effort, we examined only one host individual.
However, we previously examined symbiont localization in the ovaries from at least 6
osts and approximately 10 serial sections per ovary, and never observed the symbiont
n the egg cytoplasm.
With regard to the detectability of a single symbiont cell by our ISH, we have
ever actually confirmed it. However, ISH with 16s rRNA-targeted oligonucleotide
robes has been broadly used to detect single bacterial cells. Additionally, in follicle
ells, in which only several symbiont cells were observed per follicle cell (Fig. 2e, f),
he ISH signal was detectable (Fig. 2b), although the section thickness of TEM and ISH
were different. Therefore, we consider that single symbiont cells are likely detectable in
SH of the ovary sections.
Comment 11: p.19, line 9-10. P. 23, line 11-12.: It is stated that symbionts were located
utside the plasma membrane of spawned eggs. I interpret this to mean that the
ymbionts reside within the vitelline envelope since the vitelline envelope is the
utermost layer. This is also mentioned later in paper on p. 23.Is this correct? Please
larify and cite appropriate figure(s).
Response: Yes. Our TEM observation indicated that the symbionts reside within the
on-cellular vitelline membrane. To clarify this, we have added a new schematic
rawing (Fig. 1n) in place of the former Fig. 1m.
Comment 12: p.19 line 12: Was a positive control of any sort run on the eggs that could
nswer questions about penetration issues?
Response: For penetration issues in WISH, no positive control was run on eggs because
we could not design the oligonucleotide probe appropriate for positive control. However,
xactly for this reason, we conducted ISH on the ovary sections.
Comment 13: p.19 line 13-14: Regarding contamination from seawater, did you control
or symbiont genome presence in the seawater used for spawning? And for symbionts in
eawater a) after placing clam in vessel as symbionts could be coming off shell/animal,
tc., and after spawning? This would increase the number of symbiont genomes
etected relative to cells on the egg surface.
Response: In our qPCR, no-template controls (NTC) with 1 µL of FSW, in which eggs
were kept until harvesting, were run, and they did not produce a threshold cycle value.
However, we did not conduct control experiments to assess all of the possibilities that
ou suggested above. Exactly for this reason, we conducted ISH on the ovary sections
o check for the existence of the symbiont on the oocyte before spawning.
Comment 14: P.22 line 2: I have an issue with this part. The size of the single units
hown in Fig. 3h are about 1 um across. Given that this is the approximate size of the
ymbiont cell (e.g. from Table S1), no more than one or two single units, let alone a
ozen, could fit into a symbiont cell. Further, bacterial nucleoids can be compacted,
with multiple “parts” shown with DAPI.
Response: We apologize for our misleading presentation in Fig. 3h. The signal spot for
DAPI with a diameter of approximately 1-1.5 µm shown in Fig. 3h does not represent a
mall unit showing a single copy of the symbiont genome, but rather a single symbiont
ell. We mean that this spot consists of several small parts (units). To clarify this, we
ave added several white arrowheads indicating these small units in Fig. 3h.
Responses to the comments of Reviewer 2
Comment 1: Figure 3: Color gradation of the bar charts in Fig 3 a-c does not make
much sense scientifically. Also different coloring among the charts does not give any
dditional information. Avoid such a cosmetic effort for scientific literature.
Response: Thank you for this comment. We have avoided colour graduation of the bar
harts and different colouring among the charts in Fig. 3.
Comment 2: Given the apparent dynamic behavior of the symbiont in the transmission,
am interested in whether the symbiont has some mobile machinery such as flagellar
pparatus. Since the same group of the authors has already revealed the complete
enome sequence of the bacteria, it would be easy to investigate the gene repertoire.
Also, EM pictures could be useful to seek evidence for or against the existence of such
tructures. If the authors find something interesting regarding this issue, they can add
ome sentences in Discussion part, but it is not a mandatory request to revise the
manuscript.
Response: Thank you for this suggestion. Our group has already reported that the C.
kutanii symbiont does not have genes for cell motility including those encoding the
lagellum (Kuwahara et al. 2007). Therefore, we did not add this in the Discussion in
he revised version.
Society Open
