Synthesis and luminescent properties of uniform
monodisperse LuPO4:Eu3+/Tb3+ hollow microspheres
Yu Gao, He Yu, Cheng Shi, Guiyan Zhao, Yanfeng Bi, Baotong Xu, Fu Ding, Yaguang Sun
and Zhenhe Xu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171451.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171451
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171451.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I find this manuscript a good quality contribution to the science. It is clearly written and logically
organized. The research was well-planned and well-executed. I have some minor remarks and
requests for corrections. Below is their list:
1. In the conclusions the authors suggests that the presented data make the application of the
phosphor possible in a few fields. I do think this statement goes much too far and should be
removed.
2. The authors state that LuPO4 was "rarely been reported". Yet, no citations are mentioned. It
would be honest to cite some recently published papers as they presented quite new properties of
the Eu-activated LuPO4 (like thermoluminescence)
3. The abbreviation AIBN should be revealed
4. The authors should give clear information on amounts of various chemicals they used in
synthesis. For example they state that o.2 g of NH4H2PO4 was dissolved in APPROPRIATE
amount of water. What is the amount of water?
5. The authors do not say anything that they converted the RE oxides into chloride and the
procedure they used.
6. The X-ray radiation the authors used was Kalpha1
7. IR vibrations of PO4 group is assigned to 658 and 1023 cm-1 bands. These are termed
"characteristic" but no citation is given.
8. Discussing the Eu3+ excitation spectra authors state "...the density of the states above 5 L 6 (at
3.16 eV) is so high that there is rather a continuum of levels in the relevant energy range." It
is rather unfortunate expression. I suggest: high number of levels, the levels are so numerous or
similar. Density of states is high in conduction band for example.
9. The most intense emission of Eu3+ is assigned to 5D0-7F2 transition which is incorrect. It is to
7F1.
All these are rather technical corrections. And I do support publication once these drawbacks are
removed.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
please, see attched file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171451)
30-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Xu:
Title: Synthesis and luminescent properties of uniform monodisperse LuPO4:Eu3+/Tb3+ hollow
microspheres
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171451
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). In particular, Referee 2 has
raised concerns regarding your previously published, closely related research and these must be
addressed upon resubmission. Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 22-Nov-2017). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
4
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria and is not included in the Funding statement.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Siobhán
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I find this manuscript a good quality contribution to the science. It is clearly written and logically
organized. The research was well-planned and well-executed. I have some minor remarks and
requests for corrections. Below is their list:
1. In the conclusions the authors suggests that the presented data make the application of the
phosphor possible in a few fields. I do think this statement goes much too far and should be
removed.
2. The authors state that LuPO4 was "rarely been reported". Yet, no citations are mentioned. It
would be honest to cite some recently published papers as they presented quite new properties of
the Eu-activated LuPO4 (like thermoluminescence)
5
3. The abbreviation AIBN should be revealed
4. The authors should give clear information on amounts of various chemicals they used in
synthesis. For example they state that o.2 g of NH4H2PO4 was dissolved in APPROPRIATE
amount of water. What is the amount of water?
5. The authors do not say anything that they converted the RE oxides into chloride and the
procedure they used.
6. The X-ray radiation the authors used was Kalpha1
7. IR vibrations of PO4 group is assigned to 658 and 1023 cm-1 bands. These are termed
"characteristic" but no citation is given.
8. Discussing the Eu3+ excitation spectra authors state "...the density of the states above 5 L 6 (at
3.16 eV) is so high that there is rather a continuum of levels in the relevant energy range." It
is rather unfortunate expression. I suggest: high number of levels, the levels are so numerous or
similar. Density of states is high in conduction band for example.
9. The most intense emission of Eu3+ is assigned to 5D0-7F2 transition which is incorrect. It is to
7F1.
All these are rather technical corrections. And I do support publication once these drawbacks are
removed.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
please, see attched file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171451)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171451.R1)
16-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Xu:
Title: Synthesis and luminescent properties of uniform monodisperse LuPO4:Eu3+/Tb3+ hollow
microspheres
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171451.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
James Moore, Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
Appendix A
The manuscript describes the synthesis and luminescent properties of uniform LuPO 4
hollow microspheres doped with Eu3+ and Tb3+. The manuscript is well written, easy to
follow and the conclusions are supported by the data. I have, however, a strong
concern to accept the ms. based on the following facts:
Firstly, the methodology that the authors report as “promising for the synthesis of
other hollow spherical materials since its simplicity and the low cost of the starting
reagents” (as said at the very end of the Introductions section) has already been
reported by the same authors for the synthesis of Gd 2O3 hollow spheres (Ref. 10 of the
reference list: Y. Gao, Q. Zhao, Q. Fang and Z. Xu, Dalton Transactions, 2013, 42, 11082-11091). The
ms. therefore, does not represent any novelty as a synthetic methodology to obtain
hollow spherical materials.
Secondly, and more important, hollow LuPO4 nanospheres doped with the same active
lanthanide ions (Eu3+/Tb3+) were already prepared by the same author using a very
similar methodology (Y. Gao et al. Facile Synthesis of Monodisperse LuPO4:Eu3+/Tb3+ Hollow
Nanospheres and Their Luminescence Properties. J. Nanosci. Nanotech. 13, 6644–6652, 2013). The
only difference between both methodologies is that the LuPO4 nanospheres reported
in J. Nanosci. Nanotech. were obtained in the absence of polystyrene (PS). In addition,
the spheres obtained in the absence of PS were nanometric (300 nm), in contrast with
those reported in the under-reviewed ms., which show a micrometric size (2.45 µm).
Surprisingly, the mentioned paper is not in the reference list of the reviewed ms. and
no comment to this precedent is done throughout the text.
With the above comments in mind, I understand that the novelty of the ms. could be
as follows: the incorporation of PS as the first stage of the synthesis of the particles
allows the synthesis of bigger LuPO4 particles than in the absence of PS. Now, my
question is: Which is the advantage of the obtained particles, if any, in comparison
with the ones obtained in the absence of PS? Are micrometric particles better than the
nanometric ones, obtained in the absence of PS, for any application? In other words:
Which is the advantage of the proposed methodology in comparison with that
reported in J. Nanosci. Nanotech if it implies more stages (PS preparation and further
calcination at 800 ºC to get rid of it) and ends up with much bigger particles that are
probably sintered as a consequence of the calcination step?
My last concern: I guess the size of the synthesized particles is not adequate for their
use in biodmedicine nor in bioimaging, as proposed in both the introduction section
and the conclusions of the ms.
Appendix B
College of Applied Chemistry
Shenyang University of Chemical Technology
11th Street, Shenyang Economic & technological Development Area,
Shenyang 110142, P. R. China
Tel: +86-24-89383296; Fax: +86-24-89387219; E-mail: xuzh056@163.com
Nov. 4, 2017
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171451
Dear Editor Siobhán Hackett,
Thank you for your time and attention of our manuscript (Manuscript ID: RSOS-
171451) entitled “Synthesis and luminescent properties of uniform monodisperse
LuPO4:Eu3+/Tb3+ hollow microspheres” by Yu Gao, He Yu, Cheng Shi, Guiyan Zhao,
Yanfeng Bi, Baotong Xu, Fu Ding, Yaguang Sun, Zhenhe Xu. We are here submitting
the revised version that was modified based on the reviewers’ comments for your kind
consideration.
We also appreciate the helpful comments from the reviewers. We have carefully
considered their comments and made revisions accordingly after our careful re-
examination of the whole manuscript. All changes have been highlighted in yellow in the
revised version. We enclose here our point-by-point responses to the reviewers’
comments. For your convenience, all the comments are also listed.
We are confident that with these revisions our manuscript may now be accepted for
publication in “Royal Society Open Science”.
Thank you for your kind consideration and help in advance, and we look forward to
hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Zhenhe Xu, Professor
The Key Laboratory of Inorganic Molecule-Based Chemistry of Liaoning Province
College of Applied Chemistry, Shenyang University of Chemical Technology
Shenyang, 110142, China
Tel. : (86) 24 89387219
E-mail: xuzh@syuct.edu.cn
1
Responses to the reviewers’ comments
The reviewers gave very valuable comments on our manuscript, and we would like to
take this opportunity to express our great appreciation on him/her as well as the
comments. Followings are the changes (highlighted with yellow) made in the new
version together with our responses to the reviewers’ comments and questions.
Reviewer: 1
Comments: I find this manuscript a good quality contribution to the science. It is clearly
written and logically organized. The research was well-planned and well-executed. I have
some minor remarks and requests for corrections. Below is their list:
All these are rather technical corrections. And I do support publication once these
drawbacks are removed.
Q1: In the conclusions the authors suggests that the presented data make the application
of the phosphor possible in a few fields. I do think this statement goes much too far and
should be removed.
A1: We deleted them.
Q2: The authors state that LuPO4 was "rarely been reported". Yet, no citations are
mentioned. It would be honest to cite some recently published papers as they presented
quite new properties of the Eu-activated LuPO4 (like thermoluminescence).
A2: We cited some papers about LuPO4 as reference 30-34.
2
Q3: The abbreviation AIBN should be revealed.
A3: The abbreviation of AIBN has added.
Q4: The authors should give clear information on amounts of various chemicals they
used in synthesis. For example they state that 0.2 g of NH4H2PO4 was dissolved in
APPROPRIATE amount of water. What is the amount of water?
A4: Revised as suggested.
Q5: The authors do not say anything that they converted the RE oxides into chloride and
the procedure they used.
A5: We added some explanation about converting the RE oxides into chloride. Detailed
procedure is in the page 5.
Q6: The X-ray radiation the authors used was Kalpha1.
A6: Revised as suggested.
Q7: IR vibrations of PO4 group is assigned to 658 and 1023 cm-1 bands. These are termed
"characteristic" but no citation is given.
A7: We cited two references (reference 14 and 38).
Q8: Discussing the Eu3+ excitation spectra authors state "...the density of the states above
5
L6 (at 3.16 eV) is so high that there is rather a continuum of levels in the relevant
energy range." It is rather unfortunate expression. I suggest: high number of levels, the
3
levels are so numerous or similar. Density of states is high in conduction band for
example.
A8: We agree with the review’s viewpoint. This part is confused. So we deleted this part.
Q9: The most intense emission of Eu3+ is assigned to 5D0-7F2 transition which is incorrect.
It is to 7F1.
A9: We make a mistake. It is 5D0 <U+2192> 7F1 transition. We revised it in manuscript.
4
Reviewer: 1
Comments: The manuscript describes the synthesis and luminescent properties of
uniform LuPO4 hollow microspheres doped with Eu3+ and Tb3+. The manuscript is well
written, easy to follow and the conclusions are supported by the data. I have, however, a
strong concern to accept the ms. based on the following facts:
Q1: Firstly, the methodology that the authors report as “promising for the synthesis of
other hollow spherical materials since its simplicity and the low cost of the starting
reagents” (as said at the very end of the Introductions section) has already been reported
by the same authors for the synthesis of Gd2O3 hollow spheres (Ref. 10 of the reference
list: Y. Gao, Q. Zhao, Q. Fang and Z. Xu, Dalton Transactions, 2013, 42, 11082-11091).
The ms. therefore, does not represent any novelty as a synthetic methodology to obtain
hollow spherical materials.
A1: We cannot fully agree with the reviewer in this point. First, in modern chemistry and
materials science, the precise architectural manipulation of nano/microcrystals with well-
defined morphologies and accurately tunable sizes remains a research focus and a
challenging issue because it is well known that the properties of the materials closely
interrelate with geometrical factors such as shape, dimensionality, and size. Thus far,
dramatic efforts have been dedicated to develop new methods for the fabrication of a
range of high quality inorganic nanostructures in different systems. Among the various
nano/micromaterials, hollow nano/microspheres currently represent one of the fastest
growing areas in comparison with other structural features.1 Owing to the distinct low
effective density, high specific surface area, and encapsulation ability, the hollow spheres
5
are considered to be promising materials in many fields such as catalysis,2 photonic
devices,3 electrochemical cells,4 and biotechnology.5
Second, among the various lanthanide orthophosphates (LnPO4), LuPO4 have excellent
characteristics due to their low solubility in water, high chemical/thermal stability and
high refractive index,6 which make them promising candidates for a variety of
applications in down/up-conversion luminescence, magnets, lasers, and bio-labeling.7 Up
to now, some typical morphologies of LuPO4, such as zero-dimensional (0D)
nanoparticles,8 microspheres,9 one-dimensional (1D) nanorods,10 three-dimensional (3D)
microtetrahedron10 have been successfully synthesized. However, to our knowledge, little
attention has been paid to the synthesis of LuPO4 hollow spheres by templates method.
Recently, we successfully prepared Gd2O3 hollow spheres using urea as precipitating
agent and PS spheres as template, followed by a further heat-treating process. Except
Gd2O3, other rare earth oxides hollow spheres, such as Lu2O3, Y2O3, have been
successfully prepared via the template-directed synthesis route.11 However, to the best of
our knowledge, the synthesis of well-defined LuPO4 hollow spheres with micrometric
size has rarely been studied.
In the present work, the as-obtained PS microspheres were utilized as hard templates
to fabricate highly uniform LuPO4 hollow microspheres by the combination of a facile
homogeneous precipitation approach, an ion-exchange process, and a calcination process
for the first time. The structure, morphology, formation process and UC luminescence
properties of the as-synthesized hollow microspheres were investigated in detail. The
approach has been proved to be a green route without using an organic template and any
etching process, where the corrosive acid or base are usually used as the etching agents.
6
Our work further demonstrates that the anion exchange route for the transform from
Lu(OH)CO3 into the corresponding LuPO4 is a general and effective one. So our work is
interesting and important to enrich the contents of rare earth chemistry and provide
important information to the fields of crystal growth and design.
All these results have not been reported previously, and we believe that these results
are deserved for publication in Royal Society Open Science as an article.
Reference
(1) (a) H. S. Im, U. Jeong and Y. Xia, Nat. Mater. 2005, 4, 671. (b) X. Feng, L. Yang,
N. Zhang and Y. Liu, J. Alloys Compd. 2010, 506, 728.
(2) X. Xie, H. Yang, F. Zhang, L. Li, J. Ma, H. Jiao and J. Zhang, J. Alloys Compd.
2009, 477, 90.
(3) X. L. Xu and S.A. Asher, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 7940.
(4) Y. Li, W. Li, S. Chou and J. Chen, J. Alloys Compd. 2008, 456, 339.
(5) A. N. Zelikin, Q. Li and F. Caruso, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2006, 45, 7743.
(6) (a) Z. Xu, P. a. Ma, C. Li, Z. Hou, X. Zhai, S. Huang and J. Lin, Biomaterials,
2011, 32, 4161-4173. (b) J. Yang, J. Cao, D. Shen, J. Xiong, J. Tang and S. Hu,
CrystEngComm, 2016, 18, 8944-8952. (c) Z. Xu, Y. Cao, C. Li, P. a. Ma, X. Zhai, S.
Huang, X. Kang, M. Shang, D. Yang, Y. Dai and J. Lin, Journal of Materials Chemistry,
2011, 21, 3686-3694.
(7) (a) S. Heer, O. Lehmann, M. Haase and H.-U. Güdel, Angewandte Chemie
International Edition, 2003, 42, 3179-3182. (b) F. Meiser, C. Cortez and F. Caruso,
Angewandte Chemie International Edition, 2004, 43, 5954-5957.
(8) A. I. Becerro and M. Ocana, RSC Advances, 2015, 5, 34517-34524.
(9) X. Long, Q. Song, H. Lian, Journal of Materials Chemistry B, 2015, 3, 9330-9339.
(10) C. Sun, X. Li, H. Wang and D. Xue, Inorganic Chemistry, 2016, 55, 2969-2976.
(11) (a) G. Jia, H. You, Y. Zheng, K. Liu, N. Guo, H. Zhang, CrystEngComm, 2010, 12,
2943–2948. (b) G. Jia, M. Yang, Y. Song, H. You, H. Zhang, Cryst. Growth Des., 9,
301-307.
Q2: Secondly, and more important, hollow LuPO4 nanospheres doped with the same
active lanthanide ions (Eu3+/Tb3+) were already prepared by the same author using a very
similar methodology (Y. Gao et al. Facile Synthesis of Monodisperse LuPO4:Eu3+/Tb3+
Hollow Nanospheres and Their Luminescence Properties. J. Nanosci. Nanotech. 13,
7
6644–6652, 2013). The only difference between both methodologies is that the LuPO4
nanospheres reported in J. Nanosci. Nanotech. were obtained in the absence of
polystyrene (PS). In addition, the spheres obtained in the absence of PS were nanometric
(300 nm), in contrast with those reported in the under-reviewed ms., which show a
micrometric size (2.45 µm). Surprisingly, the mentioned paper is not in the reference list
of the reviewed ms. And no comment to this precedent is done throughout the text.
A2: We cannot fully agree with the reviewer in this point. First, in modern chemistry and
materials science, the precise architectural manipulation of nano/microcrystals with well
defined morphologies and accurately tunable sizes remains a research focus and a
challenging issue because it is well known that the properties of the materials closely
interrelate with geometrical factors such as shape, dimensionality, and size. Thus far,
dramatic efforts have been dedicated to develop new methods for the fabrication of a
range of high quality inorganic nanostructures in different systems. From the perspective
of application, nanomaterials are not only synthesized in large quantities with a desired
composition, reproducible size, shape, and structure but also are prepared and assembled
using green, environmentally responsible methodologies. As such, the development of a
mild and more controlled method for creating such novel architectures will be of general
interest. Second, although a lot of efforts had been devoted to the chemical synthesis of
LuPO4 material with various morphologies such as zero-dimensional (0D) nanoparticles,
microspheres, one-dimensional (1D) nanorods, three-dimensional (3D)
microtetrahedron.1 have been synthesized.1-4 Therefore, it remains a challenge to
fabricate well-defined LuPO4 material by a facile, economic and green method.
In previous work (J. Nanosci. Nanotech. 13, 6644–6652, 2013), we synthesized the
8
LuPO4 hollow spheres via a facile solution-phase method by utilizing the colloidal
spheres of Lu(OH)CO3 as a sacrificial template and NH4H2PO4 as a phosphorus source.
The size of the hollow spheres is about 300 nm. However, to the best of our knowledge,
there have been few reports on the synthesis of uniform, well-dispersed micrometer-
scaled rare-earth-doped LuPO4 hollow spheres and their corresponding luminescence
properties. In this paper, we synthesized the novel LuPO4 hollow microspheres with
diameters of about 2.4 µm by the combination of a facile homogeneous precipitation
approach, an ion-exchange process, and a calcination process for the first time. The
structure, morphology, formation process and luminescence properties of the as-
synthesized hollow microspheres were investigated in detail. So our work is interesting
and important to enrich the contents of rare earth chemistry and provide important
information to the fields of crystal growth and design. According to review’s comment,
we added the above paper as a new reference 34, and we also introduced this paper in
Introduction part.
All these results have not been reported previously, and we believe that these results
are deserved for publication in Royal Society Open Science as an article.
Reference
(1) C. Sun, X. Li, H. Wang, D. Xue, Inorganic Chemistry, 2016, 55, 2969-2976.
(2) A. I. Becerro and M. Ocana, RSC Advances, 2015, 5, 34517-34524.
(3) X. Long, Q. Song, H. Lian, Journal of Materials Chemistry B, 2015, 3, 9330-9339.
(4) J. Zeler, E. Zych, RSC Advances, 2016, 6, 89019-89027.
Q3: With the above comments in mind, I understand that the novelty of the ms. could be
as follows: the incorporation of PS as the first stage of the synthesis of the particles
9
allows the synthesis of bigger LuPO4 particles than in the absence of PS. Now, my
question is: Which is the advantage of the obtained particles, if any, in comparison with
the ones obtained in the absence of PS? Are micrometric particles better than the
nanometric ones, obtained in the absence of PS, for any application? In other words:
Which is the advantage of the proposed methodology in comparison with that reported in
J. Nanosci. Nanotech if it implies more stages (PS preparation and further calcination at
800 ºC to get rid of it) and ends up with much bigger particles that are probably sintered
as a consequence of the calcination step?
A3: For the first and second question, the hollow spheres of rare-earth-ion-doped
phosphors would achieve a reduction in the amount of expensive rare earth. Moreover,
because of the low density of hollow spherical materials, when coating a screen in
display applications, the phosphors can be well dispersed, enhancing the uniformity and
giving high packing densities of the coating. So the micrometric particles are better than
the nanometric ones.
As for the third question, in recent years, hollow structures with controllable interior
voids and functional exterior shells have earned so much attention because of their
potential applications in many fields, such as catalysis, drug delivery, gas sensing, and
energy storage/conversion.1-5 Up to now, many synthetic technologies, such as Kirkendall
effect,6-8 galvanic replacement,9,10 template route,4,11 chemical etching,12 thermal
decomposition,13 have been proposing toward hollow structures with different
morphologies. Among all three commonly used strategies, hard template method has
been extensively adopting in the fabrication of hollow micro/nanospheres as it is
straightforward to utilize and has advantages, such as control of size, shape and structure.
10
In this paper, well-dispersed, uniform LuPO4 hollow microspheres have been
successfully fabricated by the combination of a facile homogeneous precipitation
approach, an ion-exchange process, and a calcination process in the presence of colloidal
PS microspheres as templates. So we think this is a general method for the synthesis of
other Lanthanide orthophosphates hollow spheres. Furthermore, we will perform more
and deep research works on the synthesis of other lanthanide orthophosphates hollow
spheres in future.
Reference
1. M. R. Kim, Z. Xu, G. Chen and D. Ma, Chem. Eur. J., 2014, 20, 11256-11275.
2. Z. Xu, M. Quintanilla, F. Vetrone, A. O. Govorov, M. Chaker and D. Ma, Adv. Funct.
Mater., 2015, 25, 2950-2960.
3. L.-L. Wu, Z. Wang, Y. Long, J. Li, Y. Liu, Q.-S. Wang, X. Wang, S.-Y. Song, X. Liu
and H.-J. Zhang, Small, 2017, 13, 1604270-n/a.
4. Y. Gao, M. Fan, Q. Fang and F. Yang, New J. Chem., 2014, 38, 146-154.
5. Y. Gao, Q. Zhao, Z. Xu and Y. Sun, New J. Chem., 2014, 38, 2629-2638.
6. Y. Yu, X. Yin, A. Kvit and X. Wang, Nano Letters, 2014, 14, 2528-2535.
7. Z. Xu, P. a. Ma, C. Li, Z. Hou, X. Zhai, S. Huang and J. Lin, Biomaterials, 2011, 32,
4161-4173.
8. Z. Xu, Y. Cao, C. Li, P. a. Ma, X. Zhai, S. Huang, X. Kang, M. Shang, D. Yang, Y. Dai
and J. Lin, J. Mater. Chem., 2011, 21, 3686-3694.
9. B. Goris, L. Polavarapu, S. Bals, G. Van Tendeloo and L. M. Liz-Marzán, Nano Letters,
2014, 14, 3220-3226.
10. L. Polavarapu, D. Zanaga, T. Altantzis, S. Rodal-Cedeira, I. Pastoriza-Santos, J.
Pérez-Juste, S. Bals and L. M. Liz-Marzán, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2016, 138, 11453-11456.
11. Z. Xu, Y. Gao, T. Liu, L. Wang, S. Bian and J. Lin, J. Mater. Chem., 2012, 22, 21695-
21703.
12. Y. Feng, X.-Y. Yu and U. Paik, Chem. Commun., 2016, 52, 6269-6272.
11
13. Y. Yang, S. Wang, C. Jiang, Q. Lu, Z. Tang and X. Wang, Chem. Mater., 2016, 28,
2417-2423.
Q4: My last concern: I guess the size of the synthesized particles is not adequate for
their use in biodmedicine nor in bioimaging, as proposed in both the introduction section
and the conclusions of the ms.
A4: We thank the review for this comment, and we agree with him/her that in principle.
It is true that the synthesized particles are not adequate for their use in biomedicine nor in
bioimaging. So we deleted these statements in manuscript.
12
Society Open
