Effects of dimming light-emitting diode street lights on light-
opportunistic and light-averse bats in suburban habitats
Elizabeth G. Rowse, Stephen Harris and Gareth Jones
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180205.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180205
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 February 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 April 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180205.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jens Rydell)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached file (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Reviewer comments to the manuscript ‘Dimming mitigates adverse effects of artificial light for
light-intolerant bats: a field experiment’ by Liz Rowse, Stephen Harris, and Gareth Jones;
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180205
In this paper, the authors report the outcome of bat activity measurements near light posts (LED)
emitting light with different intensities. Information on how light intensity affects bat activity is
essential when avoiding impact of light at night on species, to preserve suitable foraging habitat
and suitable dark refuges for commuting. I think the study is performed and analyzed well, and
the manuscript is well written. I have a limited number of comments.
Discussion:
(page 15 line 9 onwards): this reasoning is highly specific for the setup used in this study. The
number of bats recorded is a function of detection range and light intensity. Light posts were 10
m high; with light levels measured at 1.8 meter. Detectors were fitted 1 m below the lantern (9 m
above ground), and hence light levels at the height of the detector must have been substantially
higher than at 1.8 m height. Many myotis species are only recorded when <3 m away from a bat
3
detector, and therefore not much further away than 4 meters from the light. Light levels must
have been much higher at those heights. In case of light posts with different heights producing
the same light levels at 1.8 m this calculation is different, for example in the study by Stone et al
2012, in which much shorter light posts were used (which makes the results between these
studies contrast even more). I think it’s important to discuss this and to indicate this study is a
first – but certainly important – effort in identifying the impact of different light levels, but
inevitably specific for the setup used for testing (I do not think this devaluates the study in any
way).
Methods:
Was traffic intensity comparable between between sites? And was there any indication of a
change in human activity near the light posts as a result of light intensity, e.g. changes in driving
speed?
What is the colour temperature (Kelvin) of the lights used? This is of course an a course
indication, which can be derived from the spectrum, but if known good to mention as well as this
dimension is often used.
Specific comments:
Table 1 – Why is the overall effect of light level not provided in table 1?
Page 7 line 8 – Not clear, were detectors fitted at all three lighting columns at each site?
Page 9, line 10 – this is then on average around 44 files per light level per site? As a percentage is
taken from the files with bat passes, this number differs per treatment? It would be good to have
an idea of numbers here.
Page 13 line 27 – does this mean the insect detection method was insufficient, or that the feeding
success went up because of more effective hunting (as for example shown by Wakefield, 2015)?
Page 14 line 17 – the statement on dimming LED lights by 50% is a bit strange, this of course
depends on the power and is more related to an absolute value of light, and must have been
specific for the study referred to. I guess the authors mean <14 lux instead of >14 lux?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180205.R0)
28-Mar-2018
Dear Ms Rowse,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Dimming mitigates adverse effects of artificial light for light-
intolerant bats: a field experiment") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 20-Apr-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
4
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180205
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
5
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Susanne Shultz (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Susanne Shultz):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both referees found merit in the study. The second referee is very supportive of the paper. The
first is not convinced that your sample size for Myotis is sufficient. As your models appear
appropriate and provide evidence for an effect, I am inclined to disagree. However, to address
their concerns, please justify the sample size for Myotis in some more detail. I would suggest
reporting an effect size or similar.
Also, after reading the referees' report, I returned to your mixed model justification in the
methods. I think you have used an appropriate model, but it would be better if some more detail
is provided about model fit and random factors. I assume you used site as a random factor in the
model, but this is not very clear.
6
There are also comments by both referees about the clarity and structure of the discussion. These
are straightforward to deal with and will help with the readability of the manuscript.
I have recommended major revisions only because minor revisions allow a very short turn
around time.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Reviewer comments to the manuscript ‘Dimming mitigates adverse effects of artificial light for
light-intolerant bats: a field experiment’ by Liz Rowse, Stephen Harris, and Gareth Jones;
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180205
In this paper, the authors report the outcome of bat activity measurements near light posts (LED)
emitting light with different intensities. Information on how light intensity affects bat activity is
essential when avoiding impact of light at night on species, to preserve suitable foraging habitat
and suitable dark refuges for commuting. I think the study is performed and analyzed well, and
the manuscript is well written. I have a limited number of comments.
Discussion:
(page 15 line 9 onwards): this reasoning is highly specific for the setup used in this study. The
number of bats recorded is a function of detection range and light intensity. Light posts were 10
m high; with light levels measured at 1.8 meter. Detectors were fitted 1 m below the lantern (9 m
above ground), and hence light levels at the height of the detector must have been substantially
higher than at 1.8 m height. Many myotis species are only recorded when <3 m away from a bat
detector, and therefore not much further away than 4 meters from the light. Light levels must
have been much higher at those heights. In case of light posts with different heights producing
the same light levels at 1.8 m this calculation is different, for example in the study by Stone et al
2012, in which much shorter light posts were used (which makes the results between these
studies contrast even more). I think it’s important to discuss this and to indicate this study is a
first – but certainly important – effort in identifying the impact of different light levels, but
inevitably specific for the setup used for testing (I do not think this devaluates the study in any
way).
Methods:
Was traffic intensity comparable between between sites? And was there any indication of a
change in human activity near the light posts as a result of light intensity, e.g. changes in driving
speed?
What is the colour temperature (Kelvin) of the lights used? This is of course an a course
indication, which can be derived from the spectrum, but if known good to mention as well as this
dimension is often used.
7
Specific comments:
Table 1 – Why is the overall effect of light level not provided in table 1?
Page 7 line 8 – Not clear, were detectors fitted at all three lighting columns at each site?
Page 9, line 10 – this is then on average around 44 files per light level per site? As a percentage is
taken from the files with bat passes, this number differs per treatment? It would be good to have
an idea of numbers here.
Page 13 line 27 – does this mean the insect detection method was insufficient, or that the feeding
success went up because of more effective hunting (as for example shown by Wakefield, 2015)?
Page 14 line 17 – the statement on dimming LED lights by 50% is a bit strange, this of course
depends on the power and is more related to an absolute value of light, and must have been
specific for the study referred to. I guess the authors mean <14 lux instead of >14 lux?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180205.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180205.R1)
20-Apr-2018
Dear Ms Rowse,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Effects of dimming LED street lights
on light-opportunistic and light-averse bats in suburban habitats" is now accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
8
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Susanne Shultz (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Review of Dimming mitigate adverse effects of artificial light for light-intolerant bats: a field
experiment
Rowse, Harris and Jones
General. Light pollution is a quickly growing subject of conservation biology and with many
implications. This is one of very few studies to date that deal explicitly with dimming as way to
mitigate the negative ecological effects of lights. It is therefore a potentially important contribution.
However, I do not think the study is ripe for publication in Proc R Soc open sci. It needs more work.
There are basically two results;
a) less intense light attract fewer insects and more pipistrelles than stronger lights. The evidence is
good and the results and conclusion are clear. However, this is not new and do not in itself justify the
publication of the paper.
b) less intense light does not affect the movements of Myotis spp. This is a less known effect and of
higher interest in this case, the data supporting this conclusion is much scarcer and I need to be
convinced that it really justifies the conclusion. This is critical because this part pof the work is what
appears in the title of the paper.
Statistical analyses. I am not sufficiently familiar with this type of stats and I have therefore not
attempted to evaluate the stats, which has to be done by somebody else. This applies both to
methods and results sections.
Comments
1. P1 line 3. I am not happy with the term light-intolerant. All bats are light-intolerant, which is why
they are all nocturnal. The alternative term light-averse was recently introduced (Eurobats, as
suggested by Gareth) and I suggest you use that term instead, for consistency.
2. P1 line 26. “taxa”. You mean bats. You never checked anything else? Insects?
3. P1 line 30. “Light-intolerant bats are often threatened” is misplaced. Delete.
4. P3 line 55. “Species-specific” not really, but variable across species (or something like). You assume
that Myotis spp are all light-intolerant, but without any reference to species. This is a bit inconsistent.
5. P4 line 5. Ref 14?? Is that the right reference?
6. P4 line 14. Most importantly, all bats will avoid lights when selecting where to roosts and when
drinking.
7. P4 line 16. Light-averse.
8. P5 para 2. There is also some evidence that moonlight affects the movements of bats. The
maximum light intensity of the moon is 0.3 lux. So in that sense 3.6 lux is not very low, it is actually
10 times stronger than the brightest natural light source at night.
9. P6 line 6. (a) Experimental design is the wrong sub-title. “Experimental methods” or something? Or
perhaps split into exp. setup and exp. methods?
10. P6 line 11. What is a lighting column? I don´t understand the first half of the paragraph. It must
be rewritten.
11. P6 line 33. I don´t understand the first 2 sentences. It must be rewritten in some more detail.
12. P6 last para. You measured irradiance and provide some details here but this is never mentioned
again in the paper.
13. P7 line 10-12. I don´t understand what triggered the detectors and I don´t understand why you
used 15 recordings. Was the detector triggered by a bat call or set to record on time or randomly???
14. P7 line 17. “Same direction as the lantern”. Which direction is that? Upwards? If so how did you
avoid getting rain into the mic?
15. P7 line 43. Feeding rate, not feeding behaviour
16. P7 line 51. Why IR? Could this camera record small flies? What is the limit of this equipment?
17. P8 line 33. Why were the is´s accepted?
18. P9 line 39. Sometimes grouped … we grouped them because … The is a recent paper in Ecological
indicators 2017 that takes a critical look at the auto id-programs and actually suggests that Myotis
spp. should be grouped. You may refer to that paper.
19. P9 42-45. This also included… I don´t understand.
20. P9 line 52-55. How could this procedure ensure that all files with bat sounds were included? I
don´t understand.
Results
21. P10 line 49. You had about 150 Myotis observation in total (distributed across 21 sites and 8
days). Right? In comparison you have tens of thousands of pips (and yet the title of the paper refers
to Myotis = light-intolerant bats, not pips)
22. P10 line 55. Of 676 checked files 13% were wrong, and none of them were Pipistrellus. Right?
This means to me that most or at least many of the errors were on Myotis. So the 150 Myotis
observations were not very safe ids? This sounds quite shaky in my view, even though the results are
significant. I am not sure that I agree that your method is appropriate. You must convince me
somehow. Perhaps I have misunderstood something??
23. P10 line 19-23. It is not straightforward to measure the light intensity from a point source like a
lamp. I think you have to clarify this (best in the methods section). You give the lux values and the SD
very exactly. Is that really justified considering the relatively rough? method of measurement?
24. P12. There seems to be no question that the lights attracted insects and pips and may even occur
at 25%.
25. P12 line 24-30. The feeding buzz frequency does not necessarily indicate higher feeding rate. It
could just as well mean that the insects are smaller and more of them are needed or that many are
missed. Conversely fewer buzzes can mean fewer or larger or easier to catch insects.
Discussion
26. P13 last paragraph. This paragraph is messy with a mix of luminance, intensity and illuminance
and in the next paragraph you use lighting level. And again, only intensity is referred to in the text.
27. P14 2nd para. This makes no sense to me.
28. P14 last para, line 3. I am sceptical to this statement and quite surprised that Myotis happily fly at
25% of full power. I don´t say you are wrong, but is the evidence really good enough to justify the
title of the paper? What is the actual sample size behind this statement; the number of Myotis
observations at 25% level? Also, the difference between Myotis passes in the dark and in 25% is not
far from being significant (p=0.07, table 2) and could well have been so with larger samples.
29. P15 last para. … appears to be an effective strategy … is to go to far in my view.
30. P8 para 2. You obtained weather data. What did you use it for?
Appendix B
Liz Rowse
School of Biological Sciences
Life Sciences Building
24 Tyndall Avenue
Bristol, UK
BS8 1TQ
Email: liz.rowse@bristol.ac.uk
16/04/2018
Dear Dr Susanne Shultz,
We are pleased to return the revised version of our Manuscript RSOS-180205
and thank the reviewers for their constructive and helpful comments; please see
below where we have addressed each of their comments and suggestions.
We hope that the paper is now acceptable for publication.
Reviewer 1 comments:
P1 line 3. I am not happy with the term light-intolerant. All bats are light-intolerant,
which is why they are all nocturnal. The alternative term light-averse was recently
ntroduced (Eurobats, as suggested by Gareth) and I suggest you use that term
nstead, for consistency.
Reply: We have replaced light-intolerant with light-averse and light-exploiting with
ight-opportunistic to align with the terminology used in the forthcoming Eurobats
guidelines.
P1 line 26. “taxa”. You mean bats. You never checked anything else? Insects?
Reply: We have changed taxa to bats.
P1 line 30. “Light-intolerant bats are often threatened” is misplaced. Delete.
Reply: We have deleted this phrase.
P3 line 55. “Species-specific” not really, but variable across species (or something
ike). You assume
that Myotis spp are all light-intolerant, but without any reference to species. This is a
bit inconsistent.
Reply: We have changed “species-specific” to “… and their response to ALAN varies
across species”.
P4 line 5. Ref 14?? Is that the right reference?
Reply: Yes it is the correct reference. Voigt et al, 2017 gives a detailed explanation
of the attraction-by-insects-hypothesis vs. attraction-by-artificial-light-hypothesis.
P4 line 14. Most importantly, all bats will avoid lights when selecting where to roost
and when drinking.
Reply: We have added the sentence: “They also avoid lit areas when drinking at
water sources (16)”. We have not included roosts, as there we cannot find a paper
that focuses on light-opportunistic bats avoiding lights when selecting roosts, as
opposed to influencing emergence behaviour.
7. P4 line 16. Light-averse.
Reply: We have changed this.
8. P5 para 2. There is also some evidence that moonlight affects the movements of
bats. The maximum light intensity of the moon is 0.3 lux. So in that sense 3.6 lux is
not very low, it is actually 10 times stronger than the brightest natural light source at
night.
Reply: We have included ALAN in this sentence, so the reader knows we are
focussing on artificial, rather than natural light.
9. P6 line 6. (a) Experimental design is the wrong sub-title. “Experimental methods”
or something? Or perhaps split into exp. setup and exp. methods?
Reply: We think that Experimental Design is an appropriate sub-heading so we have
not changed this.
10. P6 line 11. What is a lighting column? I don´t understand the first half of the
paragraph. It must be rewritten.
Reply: We have included the term lamp-posts in parentheses next to lighting column
to explain its meaning. We have also re-written parts of this paragraph to make it
clearer.
11. P6 line 33. I don´t understand the first 2 sentences. It must be rewritten in some
more detail.
Reply: We have re-written these two sentences: “All the street lights used in this
study were neutral LED lights (MIDI, 97W, 4250K, Urbis Schreder, Basingstoke,
RG24 8GG, UK) that were 10m in height. We selected street lights along tree lines
that contained trees >4m in height, and each site was at least 20m from the
beginning of the tree line (15,35)”.
12. P6 last para. You measured irradiance and provide some details here but this is
never mentioned again in the paper.
Reply: Irradiance readings were taken to ensure that when the street lights were
dimmed, their spectral output did not change (Figure 1). The rest of the paper we
refer to intensity in lux levels (photometric), rather than irradiance measurements
(radiometric), so that we can relate our work to other studies, all of which use lux
levels.
13. P7 line 10-12. I don´t understand what triggered the detectors and I don´t
understand why you used 15 recordings. Was the detector triggered by a bat call or
set to record on time or randomly???
Reply: We explain earlier in the paragraph that “Bat detectors were set to record
activity using triggers from thirty minutes before sunset on the first night until thirty
minutes after sunrise on the ninth morning”. Then at the end of the paragraph, we
include the settings of the detectors, that they had a maximum recording time of 15
seconds and a trigger level of 12 dB, which is the recommended trigger level for bats
in the UK. We are not sure what you mean when you refer to 15 recordings and
believe that our explanation is sufficiently clear.
14. P7 line 17. “Same direction as the lantern”. Which direction is that? Upwards? If
so how did you avoid getting rain into the mic?
We have changed the sentence to the following: “The microphone on the detector
was pointing slightly downwards and positioned on the same side of the column as
the lantern.”
15. P7 line 43. Feeding rate, not feeding behaviour
Reply: We have changed this.
16. P7 line 51. Why IR? Could this camera record small flies? What is the limit of this
equipment?
Reply: We have included the following sentence: “Infrared cameras were used so
that the number of insects could be estimated, even when the street lights were
dimmed to low light levels (25%) or switched off (0%). The camera takes high
resolution still images (12 megapixels) meaning that even small flies appeared on
the images”. So, yes, the camera could record small flies, the only time this was not
possible was when it was raining, which is why we excluded these from the analysis.
17. P8 line 33. Why were the is´s accepted?
Reply: The auto-identification of Pipistrellus species was accepted because Mathews
et al, 2015 (reference 36) showed that using Kaleidoscope, the same auto-
identification software that we used, Pipistrellus species were correctly identified
97% -99.5% of the time. Moreover, manual checks of the 676 files identified by
Kaleidoscope as being Pipistrellus species were confirmed as being correct
identifications.
18. P9 line 39. Sometimes grouped … we grouped them because … The is a recent
paper in Ecological indicators 2017 that takes a critical look at the auto id-programs
and actually suggests that Myotis spp. should be grouped. You may refer to that
paper.
Reply: We have cited this paper.
19. P9 42-45. This also included… I don´t understand.
Reply: We have changed this sentence to: “We also manually identified files that had
a margin factor of zero (either Kaleidoscope Pro was unable to identify the call or
classified the call as a noise file). Margin scores in Kaleidoscope Pro are
uncalibrated confidence scores, whereby higher values are more likely to be
correctly identified than lower values.”
20. P9 line 52-55. How could this procedure ensure that all files with bat sounds
were included? I don´t understand.
Reply: As stated in the above reply, we identified all files that did not contain
Pipistrellus species, including all noise files, to ensure that we did not miss any files
with bat calls.
21. P10 line 49. You had about 150 Myotis observation in total (distributed across 21
sites and 8 days). Right? In comparison you have tens of thousands of pips (and yet
the title of the paper refers to Myotis = light-intolerant bats, not pips)
Reply: We have decided to change the title of the paper to: “Effects of dimming LED
street lights on light-opportunistic and light-averse bats in suburban habitats” so that
the reader knows that we are interested in the effects of dimming on both light-
opportunistic and light-averse bat species.
23. P10 line 19-23. It is not straightforward to measure the light intensity from a point
source like a lamp. I think you have to clarify this (best in the methods section). You
give the lux values and the SD very exactly. Is that really justified considering the
relatively rough? method of measurement?
Reply: We have explained in the methods section that we measured the light directly
underneath the street light at 1.8m from the ground. The values given is a mean for
each lighting level across the 21 sites. A similar approach adopted by a number of
other studies, such as Stone et al, 2009 and Stone et al, 2012.
24. P12. There seems to be no question that the lights attracted insects and pips and
may even occur at 25%.
Reply: Our statistical analyses show no difference in pipistrelle activity or insect
numbers at 25% compared with the dark treatment.
25. P12 line 24-30. The feeding buzz frequency does not necessarily indicate higher
feeding rate. It could just as well mean that the insects are smaller and more of them
are needed or that many are missed. Conversely fewer buzzes can mean fewer or
larger or easier to catch insects.
Reply: We have included the following sentence: “This could be due to reduced anti-
predator behaviour of moths (52) or because around street lights bats may possibly
feed on large numbers of relatively small insects that have a lower energy content
than larger insects.”
26. P13 last paragraph. This paragraph is messy with a mix of luminance, intensity
and illuminance and in the next paragraph you use lighting level. And again, only
intensity is referred to in the text.
Reply: Illuminance (lux) is simply a measure of intensity, so we do refer to both terms
interchangeably. We only refer to luminance once in the last sentence when referring
to a specific study of calculating how attractive a light source is to an insect where
luminance was quantified using the specific units necessary.
27. P14 2nd para. This makes no sense to me.
Reply: We have changed this paragraph to read more easily.
28. P14 last para, line 3. I am sceptical to this statement and quite surprised that
Myotis happily fly at 25% of full power. I don´t say you are wrong, but is the evidence
really good enough to justify the title of the paper? What is the actual sample size
behind this statement; the number of Myotis observations at 25% level? Also, the
difference between Myotis passes in the dark and in 25% is not far from being
significant (p=0.07, table 2) and could well have been so with larger samples.
Reply: From the 21 sites used in this study, Myotis species were found at 16 of these
sites, so we feel are well represented in this study. It is typical in studies across
England and indeed Europe to find a large percentage of calls from common
species, such as Pipistrellus species and a lot fewer from rarer ones, such as Myotis
species. For example, Lacoeuilhe et al, 2014; Lewanzik & Voigt 2016 and Spoelstra
et al, 2017, who all used similar GLMMs to the one used in this study to make
distinctions between light-opportunistic and light-averse species. The actual sample
size of Myotis species flying at 25% is 48. To provide reassurance that we do have a
big enough sample size of Myotis species to be able to draw conclusions on the
effects of different light levels on Myotis species, we have also calculated R2 values
(Table 1). R2 values are a way of comparing the effect sizes between models. These
values demonstrate that the models for P. pipistrellus and Myotis species have
similar effect sizes and are equally robust.
29. P15 last para. … appears to be an effective strategy … is to go to far in my view.
Reply: We think it is fair to say that dimming appears to be an effective strategy as
our data show that when lights are reduced to 25% of their original output they do
not significantly reduce the number of bat passes as either 50% or 100% light levels
do. Also, the 25% lighting level does seem important as it did not have an effect on
the light-opportunistic species either. It would seem that there are lighting levels that
can help to realign the balance between light-averse and light-opportunistic bat
species- helping environments revert back to what they were before ALAN was so
pervasive.
30. P8 para 2. You obtained weather data. What did you use it for?
Reply: We have included the weather variables in the statistical models as explained
in the methods and results sections.
Reviewer 2 comments:
Was traffic intensity comparable between between sites? And was there any
indication of a change in human activity near the light posts as a result of light
intensity, e.g. changes in driving speed?
Reply: Yes, all sites were situated along A roads, which were comparable in terms of
surrounding habitat and traffic intensity, we have now included “similar traffic
intensity” in the methods section. We don’t know if there was any change in human
activity near the light posts as a result of changes in light intensity- we have no way
of quantifying this.
What is the colour temperature (Kelvin) of the lights used? This is of course an a
course indication, which can be derived from the spectrum, but if known good to
mention as well as this dimension is often used.
Reply: We have included information on the CCT of the LED lights used in this study
in Methods: “All the street lights used in this study were neutral LED lights (MIDI,
97W, 4250K, Urbis Schreder, Basingstoke, RG24 8GG, UK) that were 10m in
height”.
Table 1 – Why is the overall effect of light level not provided in table 1?
Reply: We have provided estimates for each light level and for all species, as well as
P. pipistrellus and Myotis spp. (Table 1). It is not possible to provide an overall effect
of light level using a GLMM approach and what we are interested in finding is the
effect of different light levels on bat activity.
Page 7 line 8 – Not clear, were detectors fitted at all three lighting columns at each
site?
Reply: We have changed the sentence to make it clear that the detector was only
attached to one lighting column (the middle one).
Page 9, line 10 – this is then on average around 44 files per light level per site? As a
percentage is taken from the files with bat passes, this number differs per treatment?
It would be good to have an idea of numbers here.
Reply: We have added the following sentence: … (mean number of files per lighting
level were 35, 44, 51 and 48 for 0%, 25%, 50% and 100% lighting levels
respectively).
Page 13 line 27 – does this mean the insect detection method was insufficient, or
that the feeding success went up because of more effective hunting (as for example
shown by Wakefield, 2015)?
Reply: We have added the following sentence: “This could be due to the reduced
anti-predator behaviour of moths (52) or because around street lights bats may
possibly feed on large numbers of relatively small insects that have a lower energy
content than larger insects”.
Page 14 line 17 – the statement on dimming LED lights by 50% is a bit strange, this
of course depends on the power and is more related to an absolute value of light,
and must have been specific for the study referred to. I guess the authors mean <14
lux instead of >14 lux?
Reply: We have edited this sentence to make it clearer: “To reduce the ecological
impact on invertebrates, it has been advised that LED street lights should be dimmed
to 50% of their original output (<14 lux) and adhere to a part-night lighting scheme
i.e. switched off between midnight and 04:00 (60)”.
Associate Editor comments:
Please justify the sample size for Myotis in some more detail. I would suggest
reporting an effect size or similar.
Reply: We have included R2 values (Nakagawa & Schielzeth 2013) that provide a
way of comparing the goodness-of-fit of the models across different species. This
approach has been adopted by other papers that have used GLMMs to determine if
the models are performing equally well. R squared values for ecology tend to be
relatively low as there is always a lot of variation in our study systems. My results
show that the marginal/conditional R squared values were 0.20/0.85 for P.
pipistrellus and 0.13/0.80 for Myotis spp., which are relatively similar.
Moreover, from the 21 sites used in this study, Myotis species were found at 16 of
these sites, so we feel the species are well represented in this study. As we have
mentioned earlier in this response letter, in many papers investigating bat activity (for
example, Lacoeuilhe et al, 2014; Lewanzik & Voigt 2016 and Spoelstra et al, 2017
that have all used GLMMs) most of the bat passes are from common species such
as P. pipistrellus and far fewer from rarer species such as Myotis species. These
papers have similar proportions of common to rarer bat passes to the ones reported
in our paper.
Finally as we are working in suburban areas, in more open habitats, we are less
likely to encounter Myotis species that prefer to forage and commute in more
cluttered environments.
I think you have used an appropriate model, but it would be better if some more
detail is provided about model fit and random factors. I assume you used site as a
random factor in the model, but this is not very clear.
Reply: We have already included details about the model under the statistical
analyses sub-heading in the methods sections: “For all three models the fixed factors
included lighting level (0%, 25%, 50% and 100%) as well as standardized weather
variables (centred around a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1), mean nightly
temperature (oC), mean nightly wind speed (km/hr) and mean nightly rainfall (mm).
Site was included as a random effect to account for repeated measurements within
each lighting column. Date was also included as a random effect to account for
recording at multiple sites (three sites concurrently). Post-hoc comparisons between
intermediate lighting levels (i.e. 25% vs. 50%, 25% vs. 100% and 50% vs. 100%)
were carried out using multcomp package (43) with single-step corrected
probabilities.”
In addition:
We have added the packages in R studio that we used to do the statistical analyses-
we have changed the references to include these. We have also included the
recently published paer by Azam et al, 2018.
We have made a few other minor grammatical revisions for general improvement to
the manuscript, particularly the discussion and feel that the paper has been
improved as a result of the feedback we have received.
Yours sincerely,
Liz Rowse, Stephen Harris and Gareth Jones
Society Open
