A technical note on variable inter-frame interval as a cause
of non-physiological experimental artefacts in ultrasound
D. Miguez, E. F. Hodson-Tole, I. Loram and P. J. Harding
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170245.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170245
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170245.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors present a study of the inter frame interval on ultrasound scanners, and show that the
frame rate displayed, when used to synchronize with data acquired simultaneously, can be
misguiding. They propose a well written and well structured study using two different scanners
commonly used nowadays in ultrasound research. it would have been desirable to extend the
study to other modes such as Doppler.
I simply recommend removing the parenthesis for the reference P5 L25.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript reports on variability in interframe interval (IFI) in ultrasound videos of muscles.
Ultrasound framerate is typically reported as a constant, but it had not yet been tested explicitly if
the time between subsequent frames is indeed constant and equal to the value reported by the
manufacturer. This information is important, especially because ultrasound is increasingly used
to study dynamic muscle movements and to correlate ultrasound-observed muscle movements
with electrical activity in the muscle. It is shown convincingly that the tested ultrasound
machines do not have a constant IFI, which may lead to incorrect conclusions of physiological
phenomena. The data and analysis support the conclusion that information on IFI should be
incorporated in the analysis of ultrasound data where timing is of importance. An approach is
presented and made available to correct for errors.
The manuscript is of high quality, presents on a relevant topic and can be commended for
making data and methods available.
I have a few minor comments:
• Page 4, line 1-8: The questions could be reformulated. I don’t think the questions are
whether IFI is constant (because to a certain accuracy it will never be constant) and whether
accounting for IFI can provide better synchronisation (because it will), but the extent to which IFI
3
is constant and the extent to which variable IFI can influence the interpretation of experimental
data.
• Page 6, line 19: Does ‘number of elements’ relate to the resolution of the image? Please
clarify.
• Page 9, line 13: I downloaded the MATLAB code, which seems to work fine. Would it be
possible to include an example dataset with the code? Example datasets are often very useful for
learning how to use the code.
• Page 11, line 20: The link to the data repository does not work (DOI not found). Please
check that the correct link is provided.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170245)
25-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Hodson-Tole
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170245 entitled
"A technical note on variable inter-frame interval as a cause of non-physiological experimental
artefacts in ultrasound" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject
to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170245
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
4
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 04-May-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
5
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
Dear Dr Hodson-Tole,
Two reviewers have highlighted a small number of minor comments, which can be dealt with by
minimal changes to the manuscript. I am happy to recommend acceptance of your manuscript for
publication on the proviso that the reviewers' comments are fully addressed.
Thank you for submitting your manuscript to RSOS
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors present a study of the inter frame interval on ultrasound scanners, and show that the
frame rate displayed, when used to synchronize with data acquired simultaneously, can be
misguiding. They propose a well written and well structured study using two different scanners
commonly used nowadays in ultrasound research. it would have been desirable to extend the
study to other modes such as Doppler.
I simply recommend removing the parenthesis for the reference P5 L25.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript reports on variability in interframe interval (IFI) in ultrasound videos of muscles.
Ultrasound framerate is typically reported as a constant, but it had not yet been tested explicitly if
6
the time between subsequent frames is indeed constant and equal to the value reported by the
manufacturer. This information is important, especially because ultrasound is increasingly used
to study dynamic muscle movements and to correlate ultrasound-observed muscle movements
with electrical activity in the muscle. It is shown convincingly that the tested ultrasound
machines do not have a constant IFI, which may lead to incorrect conclusions of physiological
phenomena. The data and analysis support the conclusion that information on IFI should be
incorporated in the analysis of ultrasound data where timing is of importance. An approach is
presented and made available to correct for errors.
The manuscript is of high quality, presents on a relevant topic and can be commended for
making data and methods available.
I have a few minor comments:
• Page 4, line 1-8: The questions could be reformulated. I don’t think the questions are
whether IFI is constant (because to a certain accuracy it will never be constant) and whether
accounting for IFI can provide better synchronisation (because it will), but the extent to which IFI
is constant and the extent to which variable IFI can influence the interpretation of experimental
data.
• Page 6, line 19: Does ‘number of elements’ relate to the resolution of the image? Please
clarify.
• Page 9, line 13: I downloaded the MATLAB code, which seems to work fine. Would it be
possible to include an example dataset with the code? Example datasets are often very useful for
learning how to use the code.
• Page 11, line 20: The link to the data repository does not work (DOI not found). Please
check that the correct link is provided.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170245)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170245.R1)
27-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Hodson-Tole,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A technical note on variable inter-
frame interval as a cause of non-physiological experimental artefacts in ultrasound" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
7
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
thank the reviewers for their very positive feedback on our submission and for their suggestions for
rovement. Below is a list of the specific comments made and our responses, which are denoted in blue
cs text. Amendments in the manuscript have been highlighted in blue font.
iewer: 1
ply recommend removing the parenthesis for the reference P5 L25.
have removed the parenthesis in the amended manuscript
iewer: 2
e 4, line 1-8: The questions could be reformulated. I don’t think the questions are whether IFI is constant
ause to a certain accuracy it will never be constant) and whether accounting for IFI can provide better
chronisation (because it will), but the extent to which IFI is constant and the extent to which variable IFI
influence the interpretation of experimental data.
have reformulated the questions reformulated in line with the reviewer’s feedback. The text now reads:
To what extent is IFI constant within a sequence of ultrasound images?
To what extent can accounting for variable IFIs provide better synchronisation between experimental
data measures?
e 6, line 19: Does ‘number of elements’ relate to the resolution of the image? Please clarify.
number of elements refers to the amount of physical (or virtual if more than 128 elements are used)
oelectric elements within the ultrasound transducer used for receiving the rebounding US waves and we
e amended the text to clarify this point. It does not affect the resulting resolution of the B-mode image
ause the area covered with the US probe is the same for all cases. We would also like to stress that within
context of this work, the images resulting from this data acquisition were not analysed as the methods
sed on the frame time information to address our specific research questions. We have therefore not added
information to the text with regard image resolution, as we are concerned it may prove more confusing for
ders.
e 9, line 13: I downloaded the MATLAB code, which seems to work fine. Would it be possible to include
xample dataset with the code? Example datasets are often very useful for learning how to use the code.
is a really valuable point that we fully appreciate and our plan was (and still is) to provide updated
rmation with the MATLAB code, directing those interested to the data we have deposited in DRYAD. It is not
sible to do this until such time as the manuscript has been accepted for publication, as (as the reviewer
overed!) the link devised for public use will not work until the manuscript has been accepted and the
ository page made fully accessible.
e 11, line 20: The link to the data repository does not work (DOI not found). Please check that the correct
is provided.
apologies for the mistake you found. The link provided was the one meant for public use and as such has
yet been activated. The link that should have been provided for purposes of the review is:
://datadryad.org/review?doi=doi:10.5061/dryad.550sg
have not made any changes to the manuscript with regard this comment, as if published the link provided
be activated through the usual DRYAD process.
Society Open
