Export of ice nucleating particles from a watershed
Jarl Are Larsen, Franz Conen and Christine Alewell
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170213.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170213
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170213.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Bruce Moffett)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Larsen et al 2017
This short paper provides much needed data on fresh water INP. It samples a single site weekly
for 16 months, enumerates the INP with a frozen drop technique with 5 and 0.22µm filtering and
also includes river discharge and precipitation data. In general the paper is clearly written but
there are a number of places where the English could be improved.
2. Introduction para 1 final sentence delete “already”
4. Results and discussion para2 ….add “the” to start of both sentence 2 and sentence 3
As regards the science I think it would strengthen the work if some comments were made for
periods when although there were high levels of precipitation and discharge, INP levels did not
increase. (July 2016 onwards).
The results and discussion para 2 line four “at Basel must be transported by” is over strong and
“must” should be replaced with very likely or similar.
It would be of interest to know
• The occurrence of INP in the Milli-Q water used for dilutions
• The highest temperature INP in each sample
• The effect of heat on the INP (are they likely biological)
• Was any effort made to get surface rather than subsurface water for the analysis?
Legend for Fig 3 needs subscript -8 next to INP.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached (Appendix A)
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170213)
20-Jun-2017
Dear Mr Larsen,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Export of ice nucleating particles from a watershed") have
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 13-Jul-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170213
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Dear Dr Larsen,
Thank you for your submission to RSOS. We have now received the two required reviews. As
you can see, one of the reviewers has some comments on how ice nucleating particles are emitted
from rivers to the atmosphere which should be addressed prior to resubmission. Please consider
these comments duly in your revision of the paper.
Kind regards,
Bethan Davies
5
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Larsen et al 2017
This short paper provides much needed data on fresh water INP. It samples a single site weekly
for 16 months, enumerates the INP with a frozen drop technique with 5 and 0.22µm filtering and
also includes river discharge and precipitation data. In general the paper is clearly written but
there are a number of places where the English could be improved.
2. Introduction para 1 final sentence delete “already”
4. Results and discussion para2 ….add “the” to start of both sentence 2 and sentence 3
As regards the science I think it would strengthen the work if some comments were made for
periods when although there were high levels of precipitation and discharge, INP levels did not
increase. (July 2016 onwards).
The results and discussion para 2 line four “at Basel must be transported by” is over strong and
“must” should be replaced with very likely or similar.
It would be of interest to know
• The occurrence of INP in the Milli-Q water used for dilutions
• The highest temperature INP in each sample
• The effect of heat on the INP (are they likely biological)
• Was any effort made to get surface rather than subsurface water for the analysis?
Legend for Fig 3 needs subscript -8 next to INP.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
See attahed
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170213)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170213.R1)
02-Aug-2017
Dear Mr Larsen,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Export of ice nucleating particles from
a watershed" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
6
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
iew
manuscript describes an analysis of the potential for river water to emit ice nucleating particles
) to the atmosphere, which is an underappreciated and potentially important source of ice
leating particles. The results are of interest, but some discussion of the data and the conclusions do
consider some key factors related to INP, freshwater, and cloud formation, which need to be
ressed before the manuscript is published. If the lack of consideration of emission is not addressed
estimate provided, which is likely an upper estimate since it does not consider fraction emitted to
atmosphere, could lead to confusion in the literature about the contribution of this source to
ospheric INP.
ments
A key assumption made throughout the paper is that ice nucleating particles is that all ice nucleating
particles are the result of biological macromolecules. Biological particles are certainly an important
source of INPs, but there are numerous other sources, as shown by Paul DeMott and many others,
including mineral dust, sea spray aerosol, some biomass burning particles, etc. The wide range of
sources of INP should be discussed and the results interpreted in light of this.
A second concerning assumption is that INPs emitted from a watershed would all be generated
externally, then transported to the river where they would be emitted. This presumes two things, 1)
that INP are conserved and 2) that INP cannot be generated from freshwater. Slade et al. 2010
showed for the Great Lakes in the U.S. that aerosols are frequently emitted and Chung et al.
modeled their emission, showing that lake-generated aerosol can be an important contributor to
aerosol concentrations. Last year, May et al. 2016 AMT showed that aerosols formed from
freshwater, even without biological content, can produce large enough particles to nucleate cloud
droplets, while Axson et al. sampled at the Lake Michigan shoreline and showed organic
components (from biological sources) mixed with salts. The freshwater-generated particles in these
4 papers may act as INP based on composition and are likely a larger source than rainwater
generated aerosol via the droplet hitting liquid mechanism of Wang et al. 2016 in Nature
Geoscience. A revised manuscript should make it clear that the potential contribution of freshwater
itself as INP, as it is likely to be far more complex than determining the concentration of INP from
the water itself.
The proposed emission mechanism of the INPs should be discussed in more detail. Simply relying on
the concentrations from water will not account for the generation mechanism (Rain? Waves? Other
sources of bubbles? Boats?), which will be a key factor for determining atmospheric concentrations.
The INP concentration in the atmosphere is proposed to be correlated with rain and discharge,
which changes the number of biological INP in the water, but minimal discussion of the meteorology
necessary to emit these particles is included. Is this going to be a function of wind speed? If it is
driven by rain rate is the intensity important? What about the impinging droplet size important? The
main concern here is that you need two factors for INP emission: 1) you need INP (which the
authors measure at least within the water as a lower limit) and 2) you need to get them into the
atmosphere. The paper is really lacking on the 2nd point, but then tries to provide an emission rate
per m2 per day. This lack of consideration about emission is a fatal flaw and could lead to issues if
published as it is likely an overestimate unless the authors can show that a large fraction of these
particles are getting into the atmosphere. Without appropriate discussion and consideration about
how and when the INP might be emitted this could lead to issues if incorporated into models.
Though the method of determining INPs has been previously published, a little bit more discussion
of the key principals involved would strengthen the manuscript.
pendix B
r Editor,
nk you for your effort during the review process. Following is a point-by-point reply to the two
ewers. The comments from both reviewers were helpful for the revision of the manuscript, it
s however seem like reviewer 2 misunderstood a key aspect of the paper. Please see the opening
graph of the reply to reviewer 2 for details. The original data supporting our manuscript has
n uploaded to Dryad and the link to the data has been added to the data accessibility section at
end of the paper.
regards,
Are Larsen
ly to reviewer 1
r reviewer,
nk you for your comments regarding the science as well as the grammar, it is greatly appreciated.
owing is a point by point reply to your comments:
Introduction para 1 final sentence delete “already”
eady” has been removed.
Results and discussion para2 ….add “the” to start of both sentence 2 and sentence 3
e” has been added in both places.
As regards the science I think it would strengthen the work if some comments were made for
ods when although there were high levels of precipitation and discharge, INP levels did not
ease. (July 2016 onwards).
m the 1. July onwards there were three precipitation events that lead to discharge
ks:14.07.2016, 06.08.2016 and 06.09.2016. The first event led to a peak in INP levels (peak nr. 7
g. 2 and Fig. 3). The second event falls into the only longer sampling gap in the measurement
od, this has been added as a note in results and discussion, para 1, line 5. The third discharge
k is most probably too small to generate a peak in INP concentration, due to the still high
wmelt-driven baseflow at the time and the relatively short time period between it and the
eding discharge peaks.
The results and discussion para 2 line four “at Basel must be transported by” is over strong
“must” should be replaced with very likely or similar.
sentence has been rewritten to account for the possibility of INP production in the freshwater
em citing Slade [23] and May [24]. “Must” has been replaced with “our data strongly suggest”.
sentence is now in results and discussion para 2, lines 5 and 6.
The occurrence of INP in the Milli-Q water used for dilutions
Milli-Q water used for dilution was tested and found to be free of INP active in the temperature
e examined in this study. This has been added to the paper as the last sentence in methods para
The highest temperature INP in each sample
highest onset of freezing was at –4 °C (24.02.2016, 10.03.2016, 31.03.2016 and 28.4.2016) and
lowest at -7.5 °C (15.10.2015). This has been added to results and discussion para 1, lines 6 and 7.
The effect of heat on the INP (are they likely biological)
did not test the effect of heat on the INP. Studies from Murray [1] and Atkinson [2] both
clude that the only known INPs active at temperatures higher than -15°C are of biological origin.
temperature range of our analysis was from -2 to -10°C, well within the range of purely biological
s.
Was any effort made to get surface rather than subsurface water for the analysis
would have been interesting, however upstream weirs, bridges and the uneven sole surface of
river lead to a strong vertical mixture of the river water (the vertical water movement is easily
ervable at the water surface). We therefore assumed that the river water is vertically well mixed
did not attempt to sample surface water.
Legend for Fig 3 needs subscript -8 next to INP.
script -8 has been added.
ly to reviewer 2
r reviewer,
nk you for the invested time and your feedback, our manuscript has benefited from it. We agree
ome of the comments and have made adjustments in the paper accordingly, see the point-by-
t reply below. However, there seems to have been a misunderstanding regarding a key element
he paper. The review starts with “This manuscript describes an analysis of the potential for river
er to emit ice nucleating particles”, additionally comment number three discusses “The proposed
ssion mechanism of the INPs”. What we present and discuss in the paper is the production rate of
in a watershed, not the rate at which INPs are emitted to the atmosphere. Please see the answer
omment three for details.
ments
A key assumption made throughout the paper is that ice nucleating particles is that all ice
eating particles are the result of biological macromolecules. Biological particles are certainly an
ortant source of INPs, but there are numerous other sources, as shown by Paul DeMott and many
rs, including mineral dust, sea spray aerosol, some biomass burning particles, etc. The wide range
ources of INP should be discussed and the results interpreted in light of this.
ou correctly write, there are numerous non-biological particles that have ice nucleating abilities,
do not state otherwise. Our paper, however, is purely concerning biological INPs. We chose a
perature range for our analysis (-2 to -10°C) that is well above the temperatures where known
-biological INPs are active (Murray [1] and Atkinson [2] both conclude that the only known INPs
ve at temperatures higher than -15°C are of biological origin).
A second concerning assumption is that INPs emitted from a watershed would all be
erated externally, then transported to the river where they would be emitted. This presumes two
gs, 1) that INP are conserved and 2) that INP cannot be generated from freshwater. Slade et al.
0 showed for the Great Lakes in the U.S. that aerosols are frequently emitted and Chung et al.
eled their emission, showing that lake-generated aerosol can be an important contributor to
sol concentrations. Last year, May et al. 2016 AMT showed that aerosols formed from
hwater, even without biological content, can produce large enough particles to nucleate cloud
plets, while Axson et al. sampled at the Lake Michigan shoreline and showed organic components
m biological sources) mixed with salts. The freshwater-generated particles in these 4 papers may
as INP based on composition and are likely a larger source than rainwater generated aerosol via
droplet hitting liquid mechanism of Wang et al. 2016 in Nature Geoscience. A revised manuscript
uld make it clear that the potential contribution of freshwater itself as INP, as it is likely to be far
e complex than determining the concentration of INP from the water itself.
completely agree that only determining INP concentrations in freshwater will not tell us any
ils regarding water itself as a potential source. However, from our time series in combination
precipitation and river flow data we can make a logical deduction about the likely location of the
ngest source in our watershed, which is most likely outside the river; i.e. between the place
re the rain hits the watershed and the river itself. We do not assume that all INPs are generated
rnally, but our data strongly suggests that the majority of the INPs are. To make this more clear
have changed results and discussion para 2, lines 5 and 6 from:
nce, the majority of INP-8 in Rhine water at Basel must be transported by surface or subsurface
to the freshwater system.“
hough some of the INP-8 are probably produced in the freshwater system [23,24], our data
ngly suggest that the majority of INP-8 in Rhine water at Basel are transported by surface or
surface flow to the freshwater system.”
The proposed emission mechanism of the INPs should be discussed in more detail. Simply
ing on the concentrations from water will not account for the generation mechanism (Rain?
ves? Other sources of bubbles? Boats?), which will be a key factor for determining atmospheric
centrations. The INP concentration in the atmosphere is proposed to be correlated with rain and
harge, which changes the number of biological INP in the water, but minimal discussion of the
eorology necessary to emit these particles is included. Is this going to be a function of wind
ed? If it is driven by rain rate is the intensity important? What about the impinging droplet size
ortant? The main concern here is that you need two factors for INP emission: 1) you need INP
ich the authors measure at least within the water as a lower limit) and 2) you need to get them
the atmosphere. The paper is really lacking on the 2nd point, but then tries to provide an
ssion rate per m2 per day. This lack of consideration about emission is a fatal flaw and could lead
sues if published as it is likely an overestimate unless the authors can show that a large fraction
hese particles are getting into the atmosphere. Without appropriate discussion and consideration
ut how and when the INP might be emitted this could lead to issues if incorporated into models.
entioned at the start of the reply, we do not propose an emission mechanism. We propose and
uss the production rate of INP in the watershed, i.e., how many INPs are generated by the
system on the ground per unit area and time. Of course, this is not the same as the rate at which
are emitted to the atmosphere. The proposed production rate is then compared (not correlated)
he atmospheric inventory to show that the number of INPs produced within the watershed
ng a day is two orders of magnitude larger than what has been found in the air above it. To help
ent further misunderstanding we made a change to the introduction, para 2, line 7: “its lower
t” has been replaced by “the lower limit of an INP-8 production rate”
Though the method of determining INPs has been previously published, a little bit more
ussionof the key principals involved would strengthen the manuscript.
agree, it is important to be able to understand the key principals of the analysis without reading a
nd paper. We have made changes to methods para 1, lines 6-12 to better describe the analysis
hod. It now reads:
analysis the tubes were cooled in a cold bath at a rate of 0.3°C min-1 from -2 to -10°C. Freezing
detected automatically by the decrease in light transmission through the vertical axis of each
e as recorded by a camera installed above them. Four Pt1000 sensors recorded the concurrent
zing temperature. A detailed description of the apparatus can be found in Stopelli et al. [20].
en INP concentrations were so high that all tubes froze before reaching -10°C, we analysed 1:10
:100 dilutions of the sampled water. The Milli-Q water used for dilution was tested and found to
ree of INP active in the temperature range examined in this study.”
arding the references below: [1, 2] are only used for the discussion in this reply and are not in the
posed paper. [20, 23, 24] can be found in the proposed paper under the same reference numbers.
erences
urray, B. J., O'Sullivan, D., Atkinson, J. D. & Webb, M. E. 2012. Ice nucleation by particles
ersed in supercooled cloud droplets. Chemical Society reviews 41, 6519–6554.
039/c2cs35200a.
tkinson, J. D., Murray, B. J., Woodhouse, M. T., Whale, T. F., Baustian, K. J., Carslaw, K. S., Dobbie,
'Sullivan, D. & Malkin, T. L. 2013. The importance of feldspar for ice nucleation by mineral dust in
ed-phase clouds. Nature 498, 355–358. 10.1038/nature12278.
Stopelli, E., Conen, F., Zimmermann, L., Alewell, C. & Morris, C. E. 2014. Freezing nucleation
aratus puts new slant on study of biological ice nucleators in precipitation. Atmos. Meas. Tech. 7,
–134. 10.5194/amt-7-129-2014.
Slade, J. H., VanReken, T. M., Mwaniki, G. R., Bertman, S., Stirm, B. & Shepson, P. B. 2010. Aerosol
duction from the surface of the Great Lakes. Geophysical Research Letters 37.
029/2010GL043852.
May, N. W., Axson, J. L., Watson, A., Pratt, K. A. & Ault, A. P. 2016. Lake spray aerosol generation.
ethod for producing representative particles from freshwater wave breaking. Atmospheric
surement Techniques 9, 4311–4325. 10.5194/amt-9-4311-2016.
Society Open
