Dynamics of osmosis in a porous medium
Silvana S. S. Cardoso, Julyan H. E. Cartwright
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140352.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140352
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140352.R0 (Original submission)
label_end_comment
Decision letter
10-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Cartwright
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140352 entitled
"Dynamics of osmosis in a porous medium" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision. The Associate Editor has recommended publication and
you can find their comments at the end of this email. One revision that we must ask for, is that
the paper is laid out in a more reader-friendly manner. Please use sections and sub-headings to
divide up your paper so that it can more easily understood. You can see examples of other papers
from a relevant journal here: http://rspa.royalsocietypublishing.org/ or take a look at the
content we have published so far in Royal Society Open Science:
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/1/2. Because the schedule for publication is very
tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the revised version of your manuscript
within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know
immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When uploading your revised files
please make sure that you have:
1) A TEXT file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper, this includes details of any
models used. You can either include your data as electronic supplementary material or upload to
a repository and include the relevant doi within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
