Decision landscapes: visualizing mouse-tracking data
A. Zgonnikov, A. Aleni, P. T. Piiroinen, D. O’Hora and M. di Bernardo
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170482.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170482
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 20 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170482.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This article is well written, and on a topic of increasing attention in the decision making field. As
more mouse tracking papers are published, methodological papers such as this are important to
help advance the field and also expand the method into other lines of research. For example,
applying this method to ternary, quaternary, etc. decisions could make this work highly
interesting and relevant to the marketing field, especially those doing work on website usage.
I would like the authors to clarify, expand on, or address the following points:
- This point, "trajectory is augmented by the x- and y-velocities of the mouse cursor at each time
step," requires more clarity as to what precisely was done in this step.
- Sampling down/up to 101 time points may create biases in their results and it would be great to
hear them discuss those.
- One issue with attractor models such as these is that there is no clear connection between their
output and the underlying decision process. They are simply a very sophisticated form of
transition probabilities, the probability that the cursor will move to (x,y) coordinate based on its
current position, informed by multiple pieces of data. This is interesting methodologically, but is
not terribly interesting from a cognitive research perspective. It would be great if the authors
could discuss more thoroughly what we can glean from this about the decision process.
- I do not think the authors go far enough in their results section to demonstrate the usefulness of
this method. What can it do for us to understand behaviour better? Does it help predict choices
out of sample better? Does it help us understand how individuals think differently about a task?
If so, how?
- The authors don't mention one methodological advance in mouse trajectory analysis, which is
the temporal space of the mouse trajectories such as in Sherbaum et al. 2010 (which is cited for
other reasons) or Sullivan et al. 2015. They also neglect to mention other work using attractor
models, e.g. Scherbaum et al. 2017.
- Fig. 5's legend should have a label that says "trial number" for ease of readability.
- It is difficult to see the differences in the decision landscapes in the 3-D plots. This could be
because the darker colors are always on top, camouflaging what's underneath.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Richard Shiffrin)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see attached. (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170482)
28-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Zgonnikov,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Decision landscapes: Visualising mouse-tracking data") have
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 21-Jul-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170482
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor's comments:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Dear Dr Zgonnikov,
Reviewers have now commented on your manuscript recommending a revision. For your
guidance, reviewers' comments are given below.
If you decide to revise the work, please submit a revised manuscript, and a list of your responses,
point by point to comments made by each of the referees, as well as a list of all the changes made
to the manuscript.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This article is well written, and on a topic of increasing attention in the decision making field. As
more mouse tracking papers are published, methodological papers such as this are important to
help advance the field and also expand the method into other lines of research. For example,
applying this method to ternary, quaternary, etc. decisions could make this work highly
interesting and relevant to the marketing field, especially those doing work on website usage.
I would like the authors to clarify, expand on, or address the following points:
- This point, "trajectory is augmented by the x- and y-velocities of the mouse cursor at each time
step," requires more clarity as to what precisely was done in this step.
- Sampling down/up to 101 time points may create biases in their results and it would be great to
hear them discuss those.
- One issue with attractor models such as these is that there is no clear connection between their
output and the underlying decision process. They are simply a very sophisticated form of
transition probabilities, the probability that the cursor will move to (x,y) coordinate based on its
current position, informed by multiple pieces of data. This is interesting methodologically, but is
not terribly interesting from a cognitive research perspective. It would be great if the authors
could discuss more thoroughly what we can glean from this about the decision process.
- I do not think the authors go far enough in their results section to demonstrate the usefulness of
this method. What can it do for us to understand behaviour better? Does it help predict choices
out of sample better? Does it help us understand how individuals think differently about a task?
If so, how?
- The authors don't mention one methodological advance in mouse trajectory analysis, which is
the temporal space of the mouse trajectories such as in Sherbaum et al. 2010 (which is cited for
other reasons) or Sullivan et al. 2015. They also neglect to mention other work using attractor
models, e.g. Scherbaum et al. 2017.
- Fig. 5's legend should have a label that says "trial number" for ease of readability.
- It is difficult to see the differences in the decision landscapes in the 3-D plots. This could be
because the darker colors are always on top, camouflaging what's underneath.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Please see attached.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170482)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170482.R1)
04-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Zgonnikov,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Decision landscapes: Visualising
mouse-tracking data" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
ppendix A
view of “Decision landscapes: Visualising mouse-­-tracking data” 
use trajectories provide a rich source of high dimensional data that can in principle provide 
cise and deep insights into decisions. Although not an expert in this domain, I believe the 
hors have made an interesting and promising start at ways to describe the energy landscape 
t can be used to characterize the trajectories and hence the underlying decisions. Of course 
 approach leaves out a lot of information both in the way the model characterizes the 
ectories and the way that it might connect to decision processes. 
 me begin with the connection to decision making: Of course trajectories do not represent 
 decisions, but a varety of motor processes dependent on limb movements and their 
rees of freedom and constraints. Certainly one would want to be able to include both motor 
 decision components in a model so as to distinguish them. 
ond, and important decision component is the start time (and possibly end time, if 
ething like jitter after reaching the target represents something like confidence) of the 
ectory, left out of the presnt analysis. And this might well interact with the trajectory 
amics: E.g. a slow start time might be made up by a faster trajectory. 
d, one would almost certainly want to describe the link between trajectories and decisions 
babilistically, not just mechanically. Most decision models in the field are based on 
babilistic random walks or diffusions; admittedly any given trajectory ‘smooths’ out such 
al perturbations, probably due to motor constraints, but this tends to diffuse the direct 
age of trajectories to decisions. 
turn to the trajectory modeling itself, I have additional questions. My first thought was: 
hy not use Gaussian process regression?” Tha would require a choice of kernels, but then 
 presnt analysis required choices of functions. Of course I cannot demand the authors 
duce a different submission using a different method, but wonder why this choice might 
e an advantage or disadvantage. 
n there are questions about using velocities to fit the model, when one would prefer the 
ire time/space profile. The authors say that this is done for computational convenience, but 
 unclear what has been lost by doing so. 
e thing the article does not explain is how much more one gains from this method than any 
he ad hoc methods that have been used previously. What do we see from the visualizations 
model parameters that a simple plot of things like velocities by time, position by time, or 
atever, do not show us? 
of these comments ound quite negative, but I do not mean them so: I think this is a 
mising first step aimed at a difficult issue, and is worth publishing (in some form) for that 
son. 
 ame add a few additional comments some realted to those above: 
 landscape is governed by two Partial Differential equations PDEs: 
DE with respect to changes in x and another PDE with respect to changes in y. A parameter 
 seems to link the velocity described as “motion time”. 
<U+0001D715><U+0001D449>
<U+0001D70F><U+0001D465> = - 
<U+0001D715><U+0001D465>
<U+0001D715><U+0001D449>
<U+0001D70F><U+0001D466> = - 
<U+0001D715><U+0001D466>
e V can be any function but chosen to be a polynomial function. It probably would be more 
aningful if the authors used a probabilistic function. 
ink there needs to be more detail about the baseline and parametrized component 
<U+0001D449> <U+0001D465>, <U+0001D466> = <U+0001D449>* (<U+0001D465>) + <U+0001D449>. (<U+0001D466>) + <U+0001D449>*. (<U+0001D465>, <U+0001D466>) 
 <U+0001D449>*. (<U+0001D465>, <U+0001D466>) component is shown to account for asymmetry in the landscape with an 
racting coordinate term (weighted through <U+0001D436>01 ). There is only a visualization for alpha=3, 
 that seems to show that <U+0001D436>23 and <U+0001D436>32 have the same effect as <U+0001D70F> and <U+0001D436>33 . I am left wondering 
at parameters are needed, and which are critical for fine tuning the landscape 
 difficult to understand and see the slope or pattern of the landscape visualizations. Possiby 
ireframe attached to each surface could help provide a better visualization of the surface? 
Sincerely
Richard Shiffrin
Distinguished Professor
Luther Dana Waterman Professor
Professor of Psychological and Brain Sciences
Professor of Cognitive Science
Professor of Statistics
-855-4972
frin@indiana.edu
 
Appendix B
Response to referees
Prior to responding directly to each review, we would like to thank both of the
referees for the time and effort they have invested in these reviews.
Report of Referee 1
Comment 1: This article is well written, and on a topic of increasing attention
in the decision making field. As more mouse tracking papers are published,
methodological papers such as this are important to help advance the field and
also expand the method into other lines of research. For example, applying
this method to ternary, quaternary, etc. decisions could make this work highly
interesting and relevant to the marketing field, especially those doing work on
website usage.
Answer 1: We appreciate these suggestions on the potential applications
of our approach.
Comment 2: This point, ”trajectory is augmented by the x- and y-velocities
of the mouse cursor at each time step,” requires more clarity as to what precisely
was done in this step.
Answer 2: Description of this step in Section 2 was clarified:
For each trajectory, mouse velocities in the x- and y-directions are computed
by taking time derivatives of the x and y mouse coordinate data. This can
be done numerically using finite difference approximations or Savitzky-Golay
filters [1].
Comment 3: Sampling down/up to 101 time points may create biases in
their results and it would be great to hear them discuss those.
Answer 3: This is an interesting point. We would expect that a bias
can only be introduced by downsampling, but not upsampling the trajectories.
Moreover, in case of downsampling, in order for the bias to arise, the number of
data points should be small enough (e.g., we expect a bias if trajectories were
downsampled to 11 data points). Re-sampling to 101 data points is a convention
in the literature (e.g., [2, 3, 4]), and so far there was no evidence that this distorts
the spatial or temporal properties of mouse trajectories. However, we performed
our analyses for the same trajectories resampled to 51 data points, and did not
observe any differences in the results. We also added the following footnote to
Section 2:
Re-sampling typical mouse trajectories to 101 data points is unlikely to dis-
tort the relevant spatial information [4].
Comments 4: - One issue with attractor models such as these is that there
is no clear connection between their output and the underlying decision process.
They are simply a very sophisticated form of transition probabilities, the proba-
bility that the cursor will move to (x,y) coordinate based on its current position,
informed by multiple pieces of data. This is interesting methodologically, but is
not terribly interesting from a cognitive research perspective. It would be great
if the authors could discuss more thoroughly what we can glean from this about
the decision process.
Answer 4: In response to this (and in part the next comment), we added
the following paragraph to Section 4:
It is important to note that, though the current visualisations provide a con-
cise way of displaying the most relevant features of mouse cursor movement
during a two-choice experiment, they do not constitute a process model of deci-
sion making. That is, the attractors at the response locations in the model of a
trajectory simply reflect the requirement that a participant chooses one of these
responses to complete a decision. The current visualisation approach aims to fa-
cilitate comparison of mouse data across experimental conditions or consecutive
decisions, as we have demonstrated. Moreover, this approach provides a rich
outcome space within which to contrast the hypothetical outcomes of proposed
process models. For instance, decision making models that infer differences be-
tween earlier processes and later processes within a decision might predict specific
changes in these landscapes under certain experimental conditions.
Comment 5: I do not think the authors go far enough in their results
section to demonstrate the usefulness of this method. What can it do for us to
understand behaviour better? Does it help predict choices out of sample better?
Does it help us understand how individuals think differently about a task? If
so, how?
Answer 5: The latter part of this comment is addressed in the above para-
graph. As for the question regarding usefulness of the proposed method, we
believe that the value provided by our method is two-fold: 1) comprehensive,
visually appealing visualisations of mouse-tracking data, and 2) concise descrip-
tion of each trajectory (or a set of trajectories) using fitted parameters of an
attractor model (in some sense, like few coefficients in a Fourier series describe
much of a time signal). This is highlighted in the first three paragraphs of
Section 4.
Comment 6: The authors don’t mention one methodological advance in
mouse trajectory analysis, which is the temporal space of the mouse trajectories
such as in Sherbaum et al. 2010 (which is cited for other reasons) or Sullivan et
al. 2015. They also neglect to mention other work using attractor models, e.g.
Scherbaum et al. 2017.
Answer 6: These references have been added to the paper.
Comment 7: - Fig. 5’s legend should have a label that says ”trial number”
for ease of readability.
Answer 7: We added “Trial” to the labels in the legend of Fig. 5.
Comment 8: - It is difficult to see the differences in the decision landscapes
in the 3-D plots. This could be because the darker colors are always on top,
camouflaging what’s underneath.
Answer 8: In the 3-d plots where the darker colors were on top, we changed
the ordering of the colors so that the lighter colors are on top now (with the
exception of right panels of Fig. 4, where color ordering is kept consistent with
the left panels). Also, in response to comments of Referee 2, we added faint
wireframe lines on top of the surfaces, which further highlights the slopes of the
surfaces.
Report of Referee 2
Comment 1: Mouse trajectories provide a rich source of high dimensional data
that can in principle provide precise and deep insights into decisions. Although
not an expert in this domain, I believe the authors have made an interesting and
promising start at ways to describe the energy landscape that can be used to
characterize the trajectories and hence the underlying decisions. Of course the
approach leaves out a lot of information both in the way the model characterizes
the trajectories and the way that it might connect to decision processes.
Let me begin with the connection to decision making: Of course trajectories
do not represent just decisions, but a variety of motor processes dependent on
limb movements and their degrees of freedom and constraints. Certainly one
would want to be able to include both motor and decision components in a
model so as to distinguish them.
Answer 1: We agree. The proposed approach describes decision trajecto-
ries at the highest possible level (given the data), being agnostic about possible
mechanisms underlying the decision making process and its motor expression.
These mechanisms indeed include the link between motor and decision compo-
nent, and there have been attempts to model it [5, 6]. To clarify the scope of
our approach, we extended Section 4 with the following paragraph:
It is important to note that, though the current visualisations provide a con-
cise way of displaying the most relevant features of mouse cursor movement
during a two-choice experiment, they do not constitute a process model of deci-
sion making. That is, the attractors at the response locations in the model of a
trajectory simply reflect the requirement that a participant chooses one of these
responses to complete a decision. The current visualisation approach aims to fa-
cilitate comparison of mouse data across experimental conditions or consecutive
decisions, as we have demonstrated. Moreover, this approach provides a rich
outcome space within which to contrast the hypothetical outcomes of proposed
process models. For instance, decision making models that infer differences be-
tween earlier processes and later processes within a decision might predict specific
changes in these landscapes under certain experimental conditions.
Comment 2: Second, and important decision component is the start time
(and possibly end time, if something like jitter after reaching the target repre-
sents something like confidence) of the trajectory, left out of the present analysis.
And this might well interact with the trajectory dynamics: E.g. a slow start
time might be made up by a faster trajectory.
Answer 2: We agree that this is an important limitation of this approach.
However, this limitation is also shared by many current methods of analysing
mouse-tracking data, and for this reason, dynamic start procedure has been
recently advocated [7, 8]. In a dynamic start experiment, a participant first
starts moving the mouse and only then is presented with the stimuli. It has been
argued that trajectories resulting from the dynamic start experiments provide
better measures of ongoing decision processes [9]. We expect that more and
more studies adopt this approach, which, in the context of the present paper,
would also avoid the problem of missing out on the initiation time information.
To clarify this issue, we added the following footnote to Section 2:
Recently, a dynamic start procedure has been advocated, where a participant
is only presented with the stimuli once they start moving the mouse [7, 8, 9].
Dynamic start would mitigate the potential problem of meaningful information
about the initial stages of decision not being expressed in the mouse trajectory.
Comment 3: Third, one would almost certainly want to describe the link
between trajectories and decisions probabilistically, not just mechanically. Most
decision models in the field are based on probabilistic random walks or diffu-
sions; admittedly any given trajectory “smooths,” out such local perturbations,
probably due to motor constraints, but this tends to diffuse the direct linkage
of trajectories to decisions.
Answer 3: We believe this comment is in part addressed by our answer to
Comment 1. We describe (rather than explain) decision-making data at a higher
level (i.e., including features of motor responses and the decision context) than,
for instance, evidence accumulation models (that model the assumed evaluation
process). However, the development of a probabilistic version of our approach is
an important future direction. This is in part addressed in the following excerpt
from the discussion:
The deterministic dynamical model of a decision trajectory utilised in the
present method does not account for such changes-of-mind. One way to con-
ceptualise such responses is that the landscape of a decision involving abrupt
preference shifts should depend on time, and thus, might be described by a non-
stationary, possibly stochastic model.
Comment 4: If I turn to the trajectory modeling itself, I have additional
questions. My first thought was: Why not use Gaussian process regression?
That would require a choice of kernels, but then the present analysis required
choices of functions. Of course I cannot demand the authors produce a different
submission using a different method, but wonder why this choice might have an
advantage or disadvantage.
Answer 4: The motivation behind the modeling part of this work is simply
that the mouse-tracking methodology is historically tightly connected with the
dynamical systems approach to cognition. So in this study, we were building
upon the existing literature (e.g., [10, 11]), and, more importantly, upon the
existing understanding of the attractor models by the target audience of the
paper. Whereas Gaussian processes might as well serve the purpose of recon-
structing landscape parameters from the mouse data, we feel that this approach
would be less theoretically grounded.
Comment 5: Then there are questions about using velocities to fit the
model, when one would prefer the entire time/space profile. The authors say
that this is done for computational convenience, but it is unclear what has been
lost by doing so.
Answer 5: Although the position-based fitting would on average render
slightly better-fitting trajectories, we do not expect the landscapes generated by
the two approaches to differ substantially. At the same time, there are a number
of disadvantages of the position-based fitting, which were not mentioned in the
initial version of the manuscript. We expanded relevant parts of Section 2 to
cover those:
In this case, initial conditions for simulating model trajectories also need to
be taken care of. In each experimental trial, the exact starting point of the mouse
trajectory is determined by where exactly in the “start button” the participant
clicked to begin the trial, which makes this starting point effectively random.
However, the system (2.1) is deterministic, so initial conditions fully define its
dynamics. Thus, in order to get reasonable fit to the data, one needs to minimise
the error function not only over the parameters of the dynamical system, but also
over the range of possible initial conditions, which in themselves do not carry
any meaningful information. This further adds to computational requirements
of this approach.
Note that Jacobian of the error functions (2.6) and (2.7) can be analytically
derived (see accompanying source code [12]), which enables one to use more
efficient and robust optimisation algorithms. (this is not the case for position-
based fitting)
Comment 6: One thing the article does not explain is how much more one
gains from this method than any of the ad hoc methods that have been used
previously. What do we see from the visualizations or model parameters that a
simple plot of things like velocities by time, position by time, or whatever, do
not show us?
Answer 6: Our method is based solely on mouse trajectories, and cannot
reveal anything about the decision process that is not already contained in
those trajectories. However, as we underline in the first paragraph of Section 4,
it allows one to integrate (albeit implicitly) in one 3-d plot the information on 1)
choice distribution, 2) response times, and 3) trajectory geometry. Otherwise,
this information would be scattered across different tables/plots (for instance,
like Figures 6-8). The aim of decision landscapes as we see it is to serve as an
alternative to averaged xy-trajectory plots in providing a general overview of
the underlying data. Then, more focused analyses (e.g., time plots of position
or velocity) can further illustrate finer aspects of the data.
In addition to this, the method associates the trajectories with the fitted
parameters, which can potentially be harnessed to facilitate statistical analysis.
However, this needs to be verified more rigorously in the future studies.
Comment 7: The landscape is governed by two Partial Differential equa-
tions PDEs: A PDE with respect to changes in x and another PDE with respect
to changes in y. A parameter tau seems to link the velocity described as motion
time. Here V can be any function but chosen to be a polynomial function. It
probably would be more meaningful if the authors used a probabilistic function.
Answer 7: We believe this comment reiterates the idea of Comment 3, to
which we replied above.
Comment 8: I think there needs to be more detail about the baseline
and parametrized component. The Vxy (x, y) component is shown to account
for asymmetry in the landscape with an interacting coordinate term (weighted
through cij ). There is only a visualization for alpha=3, and that seems to show
that c21 and c12 have the same effect as t and c11 . I am left wondering what
parameters are needed, and which are critical for fine tuning the landscape
Answer 8: Unfortunately, there seems to be no universal recipe here. As we
put it in Section 2, heuristically, we recommend to use the method with a = 2,
3 or 4, depending on complexity of the trajectories, and taking into account the
trade-off between approximation accuracy and interpretability of the parameters.
We can claim that the bare minimum is t and c11 (a = 2), but how many
(if any) free parameters should be included in the model on top of that depends
on the specific dataset. If the constraints of the paradigm make the resulting
trajectories smooth and homogeneous, then a = 2 might suffice. If, however,
the trajectories to be analysed are complex, more parameters might be needed
to capture their dynamics. We hope that further studies applying the method
to different datasets will shed more light on this.
Comment 9: It is difficult to understand and see the slope or pattern of the
landscape visualizations. Possibly a wireframe attached to each surface could
help provide a better visualization of the surface?
Answer 9: We added faint wireframes overlaying the surfaces, which further
highlights the slope of the landscapes. We also tried “thicker” wireframes, but
they look worse than the current visualisations. In addition, we swapped colour
of surfaces in Figures 5 and 6 in response to the comments of Referee 1, which
also improved visualisations.
Outline of the changes in the revised manuscript
• Section 2 is expanded to include further details of the proposed method
• Section 4 is expanded to clarify the context of the study, its scope, limi-
tations, and possible future directions
• Three-dimensional plots (Figures 4-8) are re-drawn to provide better vi-
sualisation of decision landscapes
• Additional references are provided
References
[1] Press WH. Numerical recipes 3rd edition: The art of scientific computing.
Cambridge university press; 2007.
[2] Spivey MJ, Grosjean M, Knoblich G. Continuous attraction toward phono-
logical competitors. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
the United States of America. 2005;102(29):10393–10398.
[3] Freeman JB, Ambady N. MouseTracker: Software for studying real-time
mental processing using a computer mouse-tracking method. Behavior Re-
search Methods. 2010;42(1):226–241.
[4] Kieslich PJ, Henninger F. Mousetrap: An integrated, open-source mouse-
tracking package. Behavior Research Methods;in press. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.3758/s13428-017-0900-z.
[5] Friedman J, Brown S, Finkbeiner M. Linking cognitive and reaching tra-
jectories via intermittent movement control. Journal of Mathematical Psy-
chology. 2013;57(3):140–151.
[6] Lepora NF, Pezzulo G. Embodied choice: how action influences perceptual
decision making. PLoS Comput Biol. 2015;11(4):e1004110.
[7] Dshemuchadse M, Scherbaum S, Goschke T. How decisions emerge: Ac-
tion dynamics in intertemporal decision making. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: General. 2013;142(1):93.
[8] Frisch S, Dshemuchadse M, Go¨rner M, Goschke T, Scherbaum S. Unravel-
ing the sub-processes of selective attention: insights from dynamic modeling
and continuous behavior. Cognitive processing. 2015;16(4):377–388.
[9] Scherbaum S, Kieslich PJ. Stuck at the starting line: How the starting
procedure influences mouse-tracking data. Manuscript submitted for pub-
lication. 2017;.
[10] Spivey M. The continuity of mind. 2007;.
[11] Spivey MJ, Dale R. Continuous dynamics in real-time cognition. Current
Directions in Psychological Science. 2006;15(5):207–211.
[12] Zgonnikov A, Aleni A, Piiroinen PT, O’Hora D, di Bernardo M. Visualising
decision landscapes using mouse-tracking data. Open Science Framework;
2017. Available from: https://osf.io/5q364/.
Society Open
