Increased natural mortality at low abundance can generate
an Allee effect in a marine fish
Anna Kuparinen, Jeffrey A. Hutchings
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140075.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140075
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140075.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Nick Dulvy)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It seems so.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision.
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper builds on a previously published population model of Northern Cod to show that
elevated mortality, after cessation of fishing down, hinders recovery for substantial periods of
time. This paper is probably very novel but my key concern was that the authors should hone
their arguments as to what, specific, novel contribution this paper adds to the literature. 1. I read
the title and my first thought was, didn’t May show this in 1977? – May RM. 1977. Thresholds
and breakpoints in ecosystems with a multiplicity of stable states. Nature 269: 471-477. So the title
should be changed to narrow down to the specific novelty of this MS, possibly, “Increased
natural mortality at low abundance generates a recovery-inhibiting Allee effect in Northern Cod”
There are a few Swain papers and a few Kuparinen/Hutchings papers on this topic now. Can
you tell the reader how this paper differs from those? My first thought that the evolution
component was the likely novelty, but I mentally discarded this rapidly because I thought too
few generation spans would elapse before recovery. Hence this would obviate a role for
evolution. However, I was quite surprised by the long time to recover presented in figure 2, and
this compelled me that there might be enough generation spans to allow evolution to occur. Time
to recovery might be worth quantifying and presenting. The degree of evolutionary rescue or
otherwise might be worth noting, if space permits (sensu the Bell and Gonzalez work) 2. The
opening sentence of the Summary and Introduction are too vague and use the term ‘sparse’. The
degree to which population growth (please specify population growth to avoid confusion with
somatic growth) is promoted depends on the STRENGTH of DD regulation, which under a
simple logistic model depends on population size. Some qualifiers are needed for this to make
sense. Furthermore the use of the term ‘sparse’ conflates numbers with density. Population
growth and the Allee effect are framed in numbers, not densities. Though I concede that density
is important for a reproductive Allee effect and the probability of gametes mixing in sessile
benthic broadcast spawners. So the term ‘sparse’ runs the risk of invoking elements of this
broader Allee paradigm that you do not intend. Line 99. Still on the topic of sparsity, the elevated
M at low population sizes could also be fishing mortality – fishers forage too and F on such
species continues because they are often caught in bycatch of trawl fisheries. One of the biggest
sources of F on European cod after massive directed F reductions was the bycatch mortality of
Nephrops trawls. Jeff will remember the abrupt cancellation of Peter Bromley’s talk on this issue
at the Leicester FSBI meeting he organized (too many years ago). This raises a few other issues,
particularly the issue of catchability (q) by fleets or predators. The commercial extinction idea
relies on reduced catchability due to low economic returns to ensure species don’t go extinct. But
rising value can negate that. This sparsity also reduces mortality from predators UNLESS there is
some (hyperstability) mechanism facilitating higher q – which you have in the focal seal
predation. A contrast with fishing selectivity, or lack thereof, might help you underscore that. So
sparsity, when defined with the seal example, is the right term to use toward the end of the MS;
but it is confusing at the start of the MS. 3. Line 54. My concern over novelty was underscored
when the opening of the results presented evidence for compensation… This is an explicit feature
of the modeling - didn’t you assume B-H stock recruitment? 4. Line 112. There isn’t a ‘view’ on
this instead there are data – the language should reflect this. One way to underscore novelty is to
let the reader know whether depensation was detected in these stocks using the Lierman
/Hilborn or Myers/Barrowman/Hutchings methods. I am guessing it wasn’t which might
provide a counterpoint to highlight the importance of your approach. 5. Line 120. How did cod
collapse fuel seal recovery, as implied by the sentence? 6. We harvest only what we sow, ergo we
shouldn’t use this term for capture of wild fishes. I hate to self promote so don’t necessarily cite
this, but one of the few documented Allee effects in the wild is figure 5a of Dulvy NK, Freckleton
RP, Polunin NVC. 2004. Coral reef cascades and the indirect effects of predator removal by
exploitation. Ecology Letters 7: 410-416. The data are thin, but they are at island scale. Figure 1
Allee effects are defined in terms of dN/dt.1/N over N. So the y-axis needs spelling out and the
addition of per capita. Just using r is misleading. Also the x-axis is framed in biomass, yet Allee if
defined by N not biomass. I concede they are related, I was just thrown by this to the point that I
didn’t grasp the significance of the figure. I have been thinking about Allee effects for some time,
so any reader less familiar with what an Allee effect is might not get the significance at all unless
the units and labels are those used to define the Allee effect. A label describing the mortality
would save the reader from guessing. Figure 2 I am not really interested in when fishing started
3
(dashed line), I am more interested in when the population is &lt;5% of K and hence when the
clock starts ticking on recovery. Can I suggest the graph is replotted to focus on the start time of
recovery, rather than the onset of fishing?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I don't think so.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
I found this a very interesting paper which should be published as is. I certainly is a very nice
theoretical contribution with great interest to the more empirical oriented scientists.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
28-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Kuparinen
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140075 entitled
"Increased natural mortality at low abundance can generate a demographic Allee effect" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below. The reviewers and Subject
Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your
manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
4
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140075.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Nick Dulvy)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
This is a simulation study.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No.
Recommendation
Accept as is
5
Comments to the Author(s)
As to the final comment on replotting figure 2. I agree in presenting the transparency of the
simulation process. But if this is your goal then this is a procedural figure rather than a results
figure. Having the huge y-axis value change, due to fishing down, really makes it difficult to see
the variation in recovery times, particularly between about 120-150 years. It wouldn't be hard to
insert a subpanel with the distribution of recovery times.
Appendix A
1. September 2014, Helsinki, Finland
Dr. Anna Kuparinen
Department of Environmental Sciences
P.O. Box 65
00014 University of Helsinki, Finland
email: anna.kuparinen@helsinki.fi, tel. +358-40-7313120
Dear Editor,
Find enclosed the revised version of our manuscript. Our detailed replies to the referees’
comments can be found below and all the changes in the text are highlighted with yellow. We
hope that you will find the revised manuscript acceptable for publication in the Royal Society
Open Science.
Looking forward hearing from you,
Anna Kuparinen
(on behalf of all authors)
Reviewer: 1
This paper builds on a previously published population model of Northern Cod to show that
elevated mortality, after cessation of fishing down, hinders recovery for substantial periods of
time. This paper is probably very novel but my key concern was that the authors should hone
their arguments as to what, specific, novel contribution this paper adds to the literature.
1. I read the title and my first thought was, didn’t May show this in 1977? –
May RM. 1977. Thresholds and breakpoints in ecosystems with a multiplicity of stable states.
Nature 269: 471-477. So the title should be changed to narrow down to the specific novelty of
this MS, possibly, “Increased natural mortality at low abundance generates a recovery-
inhibiting Allee effect in Northern Cod”
We have now revised the title, but left ‘recovery-inhibiting’ out as this would be misleading.
Allee effect slows down recovery but does not necessarily prevent it.
There are a few Swain papers and a few Kuparinen/Hutchings papers on this topic now. Can
you tell the reader how this paper differs from those?
We have now added text to lines 42-46 to clarify the focus of previous research and how our
approach differs from those. Findings of earlier Kuparinen et al. study are contrasted to the
present findings in the discussion in line 140-141.
My first thought that the evolution component was the likely novelty, but I mentally discarded
this rapidly because I thought too few generation spans would elapse before recovery. Hence
this would obviate a role for evolution. However, I was quite surprised by the long time to
recover presented in figure 2, and this compelled me that there might be enough generation
spans to allow evolution to occur. Time to recovery might be worth quantifying and
presenting. The degree of evolutionary rescue or otherwise might be worth noting, if space
permits (sensu the Bell and Gonzalez work)
We are a bit uncertain about this comment. The focus of the present study is not on the
evolution during recovery, but on population growth rates at the very beginning of the
recovery. So we did not investigate at all, how life-histories evolved during recovery and how
this was related to the duration of recovery. While three of the mortality increase scenarios
recovered fairly fast and, thus, evolution was not much of an issue, the fourth scenario did not
recover at all, so therefore we cannot report recovery time for this scenario. In this scenario,
some evolution would likely happen, as life-histories would recover from fisheries-induced
evolution back to their pre-fished state. But this is not about evolutionary rescue but rather
adaptation to changed conditions. So we prefer not to get into the evolutionary rescue theory,
our study was not intended to study that and, thus, does not provide much meaningful insights
into it.
2. The opening sentence of the Summary and Introduction are too vague and use the term
‘sparse’. The degree to which population growth (please specify population growth to avoid
confusion with somatic growth) is promoted depends on the STRENGTH of DD regulation,
which under a simple logistic model depends on population size. Some qualifiers are needed
for this to make sense.
Furthermore the use of the term ‘sparse’ conflates numbers with density. Population growth
and the Allee effect are framed in numbers, not densities. Though I concede that density is
important for a reproductive Allee effect and the probability of gametes mixing in sessile
benthic broadcast spawners. So the term ‘sparse’ runs the risk of invoking elements of this
broader Allee paradigm that you do not intend.
We have now reworded these sentences and avoid the use of the term ‘sparse’ throughout the
manuscript.
Line 99. Still on the topic of sparsity, the elevated M at low population sizes could also be
fishing mortality – fishers forage too and F on such species continues because they are often
caught in bycatch of trawl fisheries. One of the biggest sources of F on European cod after
massive directed F reductions was the bycatch mortality of Nephrops trawls. Jeff will
remember the abrupt cancellation of Peter Bromley’s talk on this issue at the Leicester FSBI
meeting he organized (too many years ago).
In some fisheries this might be the case. We removed the word ‘natural’ to emphasize the
breadth of the results (line 102). We also clarify the unknown role of fishing mortality in lines
126-127.
This raises a few other issues, particularly the issue of catchability (q) by fleets or predators.
The commercial extinction idea relies on reduced catchability due to low economic returns to
ensure species don’t go extinct. But rising value can negate that. This sparsity also reduces
mortality from predators UNLESS there is some (hyperstability) mechanism facilitating
higher q – which you have in the focal seal predation. A contrast with fishing selectivity, or
lack thereof, might help you underscore that. So sparsity, when defined with the seal example,
is the right term to use toward the end of the MS; but it is confusing at the start of the MS.
We decided to avoid the use of the term ‘sparse’ completely and, instead, talk about low
abundance.
3. Line 54. My concern over novelty was underscored when the opening of the results
presented evidence for compensation… This is an explicit feature of the modeling - didn’t you
assume B-H stock recruitment?
We have now clarified this in line 87. Indeed, compensatory dynamics was the underlying
assumption, the finding of the study was that it disappears easily along very modest mortality
increases (second sentence of the results section).
4. Line 112. There isn’t a ‘view’ on this instead there are data – the language should reflect
this. One way to underscore novelty is to let the reader know whether depensation was
detected in these stocks using the Lierman /Hilborn or Myers/Barrowman/Hutchings methods.
I am guessing it wasn’t which might provide a counterpoint to highlight the importance of
your approach.
We have now fixed the wording and explain problems related to early Allee effect detection
(lines 118-121). However, our analyses are predictive simulations, so they are not comparable
to statistical methods to detect Allee effects in empirical data.
5. Line 120. How did cod collapse fuel seal recovery, as implied by the sentence?
We do not claim this, we simply say that they occurred in simultaneously. We have now
clarified the wording (line l29)
6. We harvest only what we sow, ergo we shouldn’t use this term for capture of wild fishes.
We have replaced the word.
I hate to self promote so don’t necessarily cite this, but one of the few documented Allee
effects in the wild is figure 5a of Dulvy NK, Freckleton RP, Polunin NVC. 2004. Coral reef
cascades and the indirect effects of predator removal by exploitation. Ecology Letters 7: 410-
416.
The data are thin, but they are at island scale.
This study is interesting indeed, but does not quite fit to the context of commercially
harvested marine fish species. So we chose not to cite this here, but added a review that
summarizes evidence for Allee effects in the context of fisheries.
Figure 1
Allee effects are defined in terms of dN/dt.1/N over N. So the y-axis needs spelling out and
the addition of per capita. Just using r is misleading. Also the x-axis is framed in biomass, yet
Allee if defined by N not biomass. I concede they are related, I was just thrown by this to the
point that I didn’t grasp the significance of the figure. I have been thinking about Allee effects
for some time, so any reader less familiar with what an Allee effect is might not get the
significance at all unless the units and labels are those used to define the Allee effect. A label
describing the mortality would save the reader from guessing.
Allee effects can, in fact, be defined in terms of N, biomass, or density depending on the
study system in question (Stephens 1999 Oikos). While e.g. for large terrestrial mammals N
would be a natural choice, in the context of fisheries biomass is traditionally used as the
primary metric of population abundance. We prefer to keep biomass in x-axis due to the
following reasons: 1) in fisheries context population’s reproductive capacity is virtually
always described as a function of biomass (e.g. stock-recruitment curves); 2) carrying
capacity K is defined through biomass and not through N; 3) our underlying compensatory
juvenile production dynamics are also defined through biomass (classical Beverton-Holt stock
recruitment curve), such that it would be highly misleading to view the Allee effect with
respect to a metric other than biomass. However, we clarify now in line 48 that Allee effect
can be described through any metric of population abundance. Y-axis label as been fixed
according to referee’s suggestion. Mortality levels are indicated on the right side of the figure,
in the outer margin area.
Figure 2
I am not really interested in when fishing started (dashed line), I am more interested in when
the population is <5% of K and hence when the clock starts ticking on recovery. Can I
suggest the graph is replotted to focus on the start time of recovery, rather than the onset of
fishing?
Nick Dulvy 16th July 2014
We feel that for non-specialist readers it is important to show the entire simulation process,
i.e. population in equilibrium without fishing, population decline during fishing, and recovery
back to the pre-fishing state. If we cut out pre-fishing and fishing parts, recovery would be
very difficult to capture as there would be no pre-fishing state where to compare. Therefore,
we prefer to keep the figure as is.
Reviewer: 2
I found this a very interesting paper which should be published as is. I certainly is a very nice
theoretical contribution with great interest to the more empirical oriented scientists.
Society Open
