Timing of CD8T cell effector responses in viral infections
Shaun R. Stipp, Abdon Iniguez, Frederic Wan and Dominik Wodarz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150661.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150661
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 January 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 January 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150661.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is no data per se in this paper. It is a theoretical investigation.
However there are important details of the theoretical investigation, specifically the parameter
regimes studied to produce modeling predictions, that are not included.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
I don't foresee the authors will have any difficulty including these (they are not proprietary in
any way) but are essential for reproducibility of results. I included comments along these lines in
my review.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In "Timing of CD8 T cell effector responses in viral infections" authors investigate the impact of
delayed CD8 responses via three mathematical models, gradually increasing in complexity. The
primary impact of interest is the minimum pathogen load: smaller amounts of pathogen enhance
the probability of extinction when considering stochasticity (though the stochastic aspects are not
explicitly modeled). The predictions and insight the authors bring are not obvious and do
improve our theoretical understanding of CTL responses.
The authors have addressed the previous reviewers' comments. I have a few additional
comments, which mainly are regarding technical modeling aspects. I don't foresee that the
authors will have any difficulty responding but do feel that these points should be addressed.
(1) Parameters. There is disappointingly no discussion of the source for parameter estimates, or
why the parameters chosen are biologically reasonable. Such a discussion is very pertinent, else
how can the reader be confident that the regimes and predictions made by the authors are
biologically achievable, and not simply model artifacts?
(2) Reproducibility. There is also insufficient detail on the simulations. That is, while the results
given in Figures 1-4 are illustrative, what parameter regimes were explored? The text states, "The
CTL introduction times were varied and the minimum virus load was determined. This was done
for different parameter combinations." What parameter combinations? What ranges of
parameters were investigated? Are the results reported the only qualitative behaviors achieved,
or are there others? I have no doubt the authors carefully performed exploratory simulations over
specific (and biologically reasonable?) ranges, and anticipate that it should be straightforward to
provide details of the "wide parameter regions" (page 18) explored (at the very least in an
appendix).
(3) Following up on a comment from Reviewer 1: Models (2) and (3) are delay differential
equations. Personally as a first step I'd use a DDE solver (dde23 in MATLAB, say) and if that
worked, think nothing of it. But for biologists, or theoretical biologists trained primarily in
biology, ODEs may be the only math they know. A few words, or a citation, on how these are
solved would be instructive.
(4) The authors are focusing on the acute phase of a chronic infection model -- that should be
stated, somewhere. It's essential in understanding the pathogen rebound following CTL clearance
(in addition to understanding that with ODEs there is no extinction, which is explained).
(5) Page 7: "The lower the minimum virus load that is achieved after CTL introduction, the higher
the chances that the infection will be cleared (due to stochastic effects in reality). A few comments
on this statement:
3
(i) References to work investigating stochastic effects, or models that you have in mind, would be
useful.
(ii) "Note that we model the concentrations of cells, and hence, a population size of one does not
mark an extinction threshold." Fair enough but further discussion of a, say, 99% probability of
extinction threshold is pertinent. For example, in Figure 2c(iii) there is minimum in the minimum
# of infected cells at a concentration of about 10^(-6). But what if the 99% extinction threshold,
say, is at a concentration of 10^(-2.5)? That would render the result -- that a delay in CTL
responses is beneficial -- fairly moot. (Note that I expect to be corrected at least on the example,
but I do feel that some details on the extinction threshold, however defined, should be discussed
beyond "it's not 1").
(6) Page 8: "...the trend reverses, and a further delay in CTL arrival leads to a lower minimum
virus load (Figure 2aii)." This is confusing! There are two curves in Figure 2aii, and one does not
show the trend discussed. The second curve is discussed later but the distinction should be clear
from the start to prevent confusion.
(7) Page 11: "Naive, resting cells are denoted by R." Biological question: should these be antigen-
specific or is the model more general than that?
(8) Page 16: References to Figure 4 are confusing. e.g. "...as before, a longer delay leads to more
pronounced target cell depletion (Figure 4a)." Figure 4a has 3 panels and 4 curves! A few more
details on what we, as readers, are supposed to infer would be helpful. (same goes for other Fig. 4
references).
(9) Page 18: "Third, the model indicates that if a delayed CTL response promotes virus clearance,
this might come at the cost of increased acute pathology." But that required pathology could be
mitigated with a stronger strength of CTL response, k? How sensitive are your results to that
strength? (see (1) -- what range of k was explored?).
(10) Figure 1: An additional curve, showing infected cell dynamics in absence of CTL responses,
may be instructive in that it would clearly indicate how, in your models, CTLs are altering
dynamics and enhancing the probability of infection extinction by creating a minimum that
would not occur in absence of the CTL response.
Typos:
(1) The Frey et al. (2013) citation, [24], is referenced as "Fry et al." multiple times in the text.
(2) The journal titles in the references seem to have no consistent style, some are abbreviated
while others are not, and capitalization is improperly (and also inconsistently) implemented.
(3) Page 4: "Frey ey al." presumably should be "Frey et al."
(4) Page 15: "...the amount fo virus..." fo -> of.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
4
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is no supporting material
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have appropriately responded to all my previous comments and concerns.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150661)
06-Jan-2016
Dear Dr Wodarz
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150661 entitled
"Timing of CD8 T cell effector responses in viral infections" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150661
5
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 15-Jan-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
6
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150661)
See Appendix A.
ppendix A
Reply to reviewer
would like to thank the reviewer for a number of constructive comments that allowed us to
her improve the quality of the manuscript. We have included them in the revision, and a
ailed response is given as follows. The original comment is in red, our reply in black font.
Parameters. There is disappointingly no discussion of the source for parameter estimates, or why the
ameters chosen are biologically reasonable. Such a discussion is very pertinent, else how can the
der be confident that the regimes and predictions made by the authors are biologically achievable,
not simply model artifacts?
have added the following before going into the first modeling results: “In the simulations, we do not
ume particular parameter values, but seek to understand the different behaviors that are possible in
model, and how this qualitatively depends on parameters.” We have also added the following text
he discussion: “. I this context, it will be very important to measure crucial parameters in the viral-
t systems considered. Our current analysis investigated the model behavior in general, exploring how
erent results are observed in different parameter regimes. Such an understanding is important to
rpret available observations, and forms the basis for running the model with specific parameter
es, which are currently not available for the experimental systems discussed here.”.
Reproducibility. There is also insufficient detail on the simulations. That is, while the results given in
res 1-4 are illustrative, what parameter regimes were explored? The text states, "The CTL
oduction times were varied and the minimum virus load was determined. This was done for different
ameter combinations." What parameter combinations? What ranges of parameters were
stigated? Are the results reported the only qualitative behaviors achieved, or are there others? I
e no doubt the authors carefully performed exploratory simulations over specific (and biologically
sonable?) ranges, and anticipate that it should be straightforward to provide details of the "wide
ameter regions" (page 18) explored (at the very least in an appendix).
arding reproducibility: All parameter values and initial conditions are completely defined in the
ropriate figure legends. Therefore, all results presented in the paper should be reproducible without
oblem. To make this clear, we added the following sentence in the first model section: “This was
e for different parameter combinations, which are defined in the appropriate figure legends
ughout the text.”. We have further added the following text to the discussion, which addresses the
ameter range question further: “A difficulty in our investigation was that the dynamics could only be
lored with numerical simulations. Therefore, we varied the value of each parameter over extensive
ges and recorded the observed patterns. In these explorations, we only saw the patterns reported
e. The differences in parameter values that gave rise to the different types of dynamics are defined in
appropriate figure legends in order to get an idea about the order of magnitude changes that are
uired to see a switch from one pattern to the other. We currently do not have information about the
ogically realistic parameter ranges for the infections discussed here, so we aimed to catalogue the
del behavior in general in order to understand what types of dynamics this model can give rise to. As
ussed further below, parameter measurement in the context of specific infections will be the next
ortant step in order to determine whether the possible explanations discussed here indeed apply. “
Following up on a comment from Reviewer 1: Models (2) and (3) are delay differential equations.
sonally as a first step I'd use a DDE solver (dde23 in MATLAB, say) and if that worked, think nothing of
ut for biologists, or theoretical biologists trained primarily in biology, ODEs may be the only math
y know. A few words, or a citation, on how these are solved would be instructive.
have done that.
The authors are focusing on the acute phase of a chronic infection model -- that should be stated,
ewhere. It's essential in understanding the pathogen rebound following CTL clearance (in addition to
erstanding that with ODEs there is no extinction, which is explained).
have added the following text to the first model description, to address this comment: “Because the
del simply assumes that CTL kill and die after introduction to the site of infection (i.e. they are not
ntained in the long term), the virus population will eventually grow back. This means that we
stigate acute infection dynamics, and examine the conditions that favor virus clearance during this
se. Chronic infection dynamics, which would require long-term maintenance and stimulation of CTL,
not considered here.” Similar text is briefly included in the context of the subsequent models to
ind the reader.
Page 7: "The lower the minimum virus load that is achieved after CTL introduction, the higher the
nces that the infection will be cleared (due to stochastic effects in reality). A few comments on this
ement:
eferences to work investigating stochastic effects, or models that you have in mind, would be useful.
"Note that we model the concentrations of cells, and hence, a population size of one does not mark
xtinction threshold." Fair enough but further discussion of a, say, 99% probability of extinction
shold is pertinent. For example, in Figure 2c(iii) there is minimum in the minimum # of infected cells
concentration of about 10^(-6). But what if the 99% extinction threshold, say, is at a concentration
0^(-2.5)? That would render the result -- that a delay in CTL responses is beneficial -- fairly moot.
te that I expect to be corrected at least on the example, but I do feel that some details on the
nction threshold, however defined, should be discussed beyond "it's not 1").
is a good point, and we have added the following text to address it: “This gives rise to one
ertainty that has to be kept in mind when interpreting the results: when comparing the dynamics in
erent parameter regimes, and observing a reduction of minimum virus load in one simulation
pared to the other, this difference is only meaningful if at least one of the minima lies above the
nction threshold. “
Page 8: "...the trend reverses, and a further delay in CTL arrival leads to a lower minimum virus load
ure 2aii)." This is confusing! There are two curves in Figure 2aii, and one does not show the trend
ussed. The second curve is discussed later but the distinction should be clear from the start to
vent confusion.
w, the references to the figure in the text indicate whether to look at the solid line or the dashed
.
Page 11: "Naive, resting cells are denoted by R." Biological question: should these be antigen-specific
s the model more general than that?
igen specific. This is now clarified.
Page 16: References to Figure 4 are confusing. e.g. "...as before, a longer delay leads to more
nounced target cell depletion (Figure 4a)." Figure 4a has 3 panels and 4 curves! A few more details
what we, as readers, are supposed to infer would be helpful. (same goes for other Fig. 4 references).
introduced sub-panels (i)-(iii) and referred to them in the text wherever we referred to Figure 4.
Page 18: "Third, the model indicates that if a delayed CTL response promotes virus clearance, this
ht come at the cost of increased acute pathology." But that required pathology could be mitigated
h a stronger strength of CTL response, k? How sensitive are your results to that strength? (see (1) --
t range of k was explored?).
should be independent of k, the killing rate. A longer delay means that the CTL arrive later. So even
ey kill faster, no killing will occur before the CTL arrive at the site of the infection. Thus, there will be
eased pathology.
Figure 1: An additional curve, showing infected cell dynamics in absence of CTL responses, may be
ructive in that it would clearly indicate how, in your models, CTLs are altering dynamics and
ancing the probability of infection extinction by creating a minimum that would not occur in absence
he CTL response.
ome degree this is true, but we also have to weigh that against the already large number of graphs,
ch previous reviewers brought up as an issue. We think that a statement that the decline is due to
should in this case be sufficient.
os:
The Frey et al. (2013) citation, [24], is referenced as "Fry et al." multiple times in the text.
The journal titles in the references seem to have no consistent style, some are abbreviated while
ers are not, and capitalization is improperly (and also inconsistently) implemented.
Page 4: "Frey ey al." presumably should be "Frey et al."
Page 15: "...the amount fo virus..." fo -> of.
corrected, thank you.
Society Open
