Nearest-neighbour clusters as a novel technique for
assessing group associations
Sean A. Rands
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140232.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140232
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 December 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140232.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Peter Henzi)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a clearly written manuscript that uses simulation to deal with a single, circumscribed
issue: the convenient generation of data suitable for network and other analyses. Its main result is
that the collection of neighbour clusters in the field allows the more rapid generation (or
generation using sparser data) of group cluster matrices.
I have two general queries. The first is how matrix construction will cope with incomplete or
ambiguous data? While neighbour clusters are very easy to see in Figure 1, it is rare that all
animals will be visible during scans, especially from large, dispersed groups where, even if they
can all be seen, identifying cluster membership may be difficult. I suspect that there will be no
real problem as the derivation of network measures from ordinary nearest neighbour information
is eminently possible. Noise in the data, though may reduce the relative advantage of the
proposed method. This leads to my second query, which concerns the use of a 'chain method' by
Aureli et al (2012) to determine clusters using only nearest neighbour information. thereby
allowing a post-hoc determination of membership at any moment. Given this, can the author
provide a defence of the utility of his approach?
Minor points:
38, 103: Either moment or time, not both.
103: 'identities' are known (not 'is').
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Data presented in the MS are clearly showed in Figure 1. Appendix 1 details the way simulation
were built!
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
General comments:
This paper proposes a new clustering method as an improvement of the nearest neighbor
distance method to account for possible second, third or higher order relationship among
3
animals. When using the nearest neighbor distance method, we are able to confirm the
occurrence of all the strong dyadic relationships between individuals but we lose (as the author
pointed out) all the other possible interesting relationships.
Although I am convinced about the general validity of the method proposed as a better
representation of the social world an animal can experience comparing to the usual dyadic
nearest neighbor distance, I have the feeling that an important bias can occur using this cluster
method.
In particular, the nearest neighbor distance comes with the possible error of loosing important
relationship occurring in the group but the cluster method introduced here can give a larger
weight to relationship that are not directly observable. I have the feeling that a choice has to be
done before choosing one of these two methods: loosing information about second, third or
higher order social relationship (count method) or increasing the chance to give importance to
relationships that don't exist. An example comes from the same figure the author proposed in the
paper (Figure 1). For a better comprehension, imaging that the individual positions represented
in this figure were the real X Y coordinates of the animals. Let's use the individual A, C and F.
From the cluster method, C and F have higher cluster values distance than A and C. Anyway, if
we have a closer look at the 12 observations proposed in Figure 1 we can easily see that, although
C and F have higher cluster counts, C and A are closer (based on the euclidean distance) at least
on 11 out of the 12 observations presented. It comes out that the clustering method gives a higher
value to C related to the farther F individual than to the closer A. Obviously this is an example
based on fake positions but the reasoning is still valid when working with real animal positions.
How the author feel about this possible bias?
I think the method proposed here has to be presented with its limitation adding to the MS the
possible estimation bias can derive from using it to open further scientific discussions on the way
to develop a complex and exhaustive method in association analysis studies. Using a cut-off in
the proposed clustering method could be a way to reduce this bias but I also agree with the
author that cut-off distance are usually based on subjective choice.
The author claims in the abstract that this method can generate comparable metrics to the one
calculated from the nearest neighbor distance method using a much less amount of data: what
exactly the enhancement of the method is? Is the author proposing a possible way to save time
and energy during filed work? If yes, is the author able to give clear indication on the amount of
efforts needed to obtain a satisfying dataset? What is the mean number of matrices needed both
for the nearest neighbors count and the cluster method to reach their own plateau? Is it possible
to have an idea of the percentage of time gained (i.e. sample size dimension) using the clustering
method?
Minor comments:
Line 207: I really appreciated the idea of using this index for temporal proximity data where the
space dimension is not included.
Line 152: here the range of the overall difference dn is not complete. If I well understood the
index can go from 0 (identical matrices) to 1 (completely different matrices). Is it correct? If so,
insert the range into the paper.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140232)
07-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Rands,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Nearest neighbour clusters as a novel technique for
assessing group associations") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
4
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140232.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Peter Henzi)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
5
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
None
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (cristian Pasquaretta)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Author makes his data available.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Dear Author,
I have the feeling that the author takes into account the comments and he tried to include them
into the paper but I am not completely satisfied by the answer given at line 213-214.
The author does not clearly discuss the main issue I have introduced in the first "comments to the
author" (see general comments part) also if he seems to agree at the critique I have brought.
I think this work is a real improvement in nearest neighbours distance studies but, as stated by
the author in his answer, if the issue introduced in my general comments is a "valid point", the
author should better discuss it in the MS.
Sincerely
Cristian Pasquaretta
Dept. Ecology, Physiology and Ethology
IPHC, UMR 7178 CNRS UdS
23, rue Becquerel
67087 Strasbourg cedex 2, France
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140232.R1)
11-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Rands
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140232.R1
entitled "Nearest neighbour clusters as a novel technique for assessing group associations" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". All main documents should
include the following sections before the references.
• Ethics statement - where relevant
• Data accessibility statement - where relevant
• Competing interests statement
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
7
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
