The relationship between pond habitat depth and functional
tadpole diversity in an agricultural landscape
Cássia de Souza Queiroz, Fernando Rodrigues da Silva, Denise de Cerqueira Rossa-
Feres
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150165.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150165
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 23 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 24 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 25 June 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140189.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Although the topic that the authors choose to perform their research is of increased concern for
ecologists in general, I have some major concerns that, in my opinion, contaminated the results
gathered by the authors. The definition of functional categories of tadpoles and the low variation
in explanatory variables (and consequently not sufficient amount of samples) probably
contaminated the result. These major flaws result in a not surprisingly result, that deeper ponds
can have more species morphologically adapted to deeper ponds.
Unfortunately, because of these major flaws, I inclined to not recommend the manuscript for
publication in the journal.
Major comments:
I have some concerns with the design of the experiment in the manuscript. First, why the authors
choose to present functional richness and functional dispersion? Are these two index
complimentary or measuring different properties of functional diversity? The use of these two
index seems redundant and I think that the authors should opt to present only the functional
dispersion, because it was not correlated to species richness. However, it is well known that
species richness can inflate functional diversity, thus the authors should take in consideration to
weight the index by species richness, as they have some ponds with low richness (two species)
and other with high richness (ten species).
Another concern is related to the functional classification of tadpoles. A more detailed description
is needed to permit evaluation of the authors classification. Just reading table S2 I'm unable to
distinguish the difference between antero-ventral and terminal oral disc position. Also, there are
some incongruence with the authors classification and literature description for some functional
traits. For example, the authors classificated tadpoles of Dendropsophus elianeae as scratcher, but
in literature these tadpoles are classified as macrophagous (ingestion of the entire food particule).
Also, for Rhinella schneideri benthic-nektonic should be a third functional category or the
tadpoles should be placed in the other two category (construction of dummy variables)? Another
example is Trachycephalus venulosus classified as filter, but the tadpole have the scratcher
apparatus.
Another problem is related to the second predictor variable, the number of vegetation in the
interior of ponds (NVI). This variable is highly unbalanced among factor levels, with level 4
overestimated. Thus, I think that the lack of association between functional diversity and NVI
could be a artifact of the low sampling.
Minor coments:
Page 3, line 56: The use of "determined" seems odd.
Page 3, lines 57-58: environmental filters are deterministics processes that can be acting jointly
with other processes, like phylogenetic inertia, to generate measurable patterns in animal
assemblages. As the word is constructed, environmental filters seems to be the only one
deterministic process.
Page 4, line 81: Figure 1 is not needed.
Page 4, line 93-94: I think that sloud be better "... ponds on species richness..." instead of "... ponds
in the richness of species...".
Page 6, line 143: Treefrog?
Page 6, line 145: Treefrog?
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The study by Queiroz, da Silva & Rossa-Feres examines the relationship between environmental
factors of amphibian breeding sites and the functional diversity of larval anuran assemblages in
an agricultural landscape in Brazil.
This manuscript is a follow up of an article published in Biodiversity and Conservation in 2011,
using data from the same system, however, analyzing now data on ecological traits and
functional trait diversity (FD) and their relationship to environmental variables (pond depth,
vegetation complexity). In the 2011 paper, the relationship of species richness (SR) to these
environmental variables was analyzed. I do find it appropriate to split these analyses in two
articles, however, I criticize in this manuscript that the associations and interdependencies of SR,
FD and the environmental variables are not clearly separated. SR and FD of a species assemblage
are (almost always) positively correlated; as they are in this system. Therefore, if there is a
positive association between SR and pond depth (da Silva et al. 2011), the positive association of
FD with pond depth (this manuscript) is quite trivial. Therefore, the authors might think about
alternative possibilities to add new aspects to this study using FD; e.g., analyzing relative (i.e.,
~SR independent) increases in FD using null-model approaches (as suggested by Petchey et al.
2002, 2006; although Petchey et al. are using different FD metrics), or at least discussing these
aspects more in details in the manuscript.
The spatial structure of species assemblages should be considered when analyzing the association
of diversity with environmental variables. This is surely the case when analyzing the species
composition and SR of anuran assemblages, to disentangle effects of environmental factors (such
as pond depth or pond vegetation) and spatial distance between ponds. Therefore, I suggest
including spatial aspects in this study, either by testing for spatial autocorrelation (e.g., with
some kind of index such as Morans I) or by including spatial distances in the models.
The authors calculated two FD metrics, functional richness (FRic) and functional dispersion
(FDis). Although they correctly cite the paper where these metrics are explained, they do not
mention in the paper what exactly do these metrics mean and what actually are the differences
between them. The authors do neither so in the methods or result section, nor do they explain in
4
the discussion what the (biological) significance and conclusion of the associations (or not) of
these both metrics with environmental variables really are.
I consider the analytical methods used in this study, i.e. the metrics FRic and FDis, Gower’s
distance as dissimilarity measure and the regression statistics, as in general appropriate.
However, I have some suggestions in respect to the traits included in the FD metrics. Five of these
traits (the categorical variables) are rather independent (from each other) traits of tadpoles (e.g.,
position in the water column). However, six traits are eco-morphological variables that probably
are highly correlated among each other and can be summarized as “body form”, which then is
seen as a proxy for microhabitat use and maybe other ecological and behavioural characteristics
of a species. I consider this approach in general as appropriate, however, I am concerned that this
“body form” is over-weighted (i.e., six out of eleven variables in the matrix) in the FD-analyses
and the five categorical and certainly very FD-relevant variables are under-weighted,
respectively.
Petchey, O. L., and K. J. Gaston. 2002. Functional diversity (FD), species richness and community
composition. Ecology Letters 5:402-411.
Petchey, O. L., K. L. Evans, I. S. Fishburn, and K. J. Gaston. 2007. Low functional diversity and no
redundancy in British avian assemblages. Journal of Animal Ecology 76:977-985.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140189)
14-Oct-2014
Dear Dr da Silva:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140189 entitled "Relationship of pond habitats’ depth with functional
diversity of tadpole in an agricultural landscape" which you submitted to Royal Society Open
Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this
letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 13-Apr-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150165.R1)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150165.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear from reading the paper how to access supporting data. The supplementary
material is adequate.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I have now finished my review of the manuscript "Relationship of pond habitats’ depth with
functional diversity of tadpole in an agricultural landscape", submitted for publishing in this
journal. The topic that the authors choose to perform their research is of increased concern for
ecologists in general. All points that I criticized in my previous review were considered by the
authors, resulting in:
1 - Increased sample size
2 - Review of statistical approach
3 - Reclassification and better description of functional descriptors
The resulting manuscript presented a better improvement when compared with the previous
version. As a final concern, I'm not convinced that all traits choose by the authors clearly
represent a functional trait, but I agree that this is a major problem that should be discussed in
literature.
In resume, I'm favorable that this version should be published.
Kind regards,
6
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
n.a.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Review of Queiroz et al.: Relationship of pond habitats’ depth with functional diversity of
tadpole in an agricultural landscape
This manuscript is a resubmission. I believe that the authors addressed most concerns of both
reviewers in this revised version and changed the manuscript accordingly. Both reviewers
criticised the statistical analysis in the first submission. The authors adopted the suggestions of
both reviewers, and did a good job in doing so. I consider the statistics now as appropriate, clear
and straight-forward. The objectives of the study are clearly formulated, methods and results are
clearly presented, and the discussion is well understandable and refreshing short.
In general I recommend therefore publication in RSOS. However, I recommend first a thorough
revision of the English language. The wording is often somewhat awkward, and expressions are
subsequently too imprecise. Unfortunately I am not an English native speaker myself and can not
help here (although I can criticize this obviously…mhm).
Line 99 and elsewhere: “…of the influence of these predictors…” This study clearly is showing
statistical correlations, not necessarily causalities. If this is formulated as speculative these
correlations could be interpreted in a causal context; however, the authors should check if this
difference is accounted for throughout the manuscript.
Lines 167 to 168: Please put species or genus names in italics.
Discussion: Ponds of medium depth have a higher FD than shallow or deep ponds. One reason
according to the authors is that treefrog tadpoles (and therefore the according traits) occur
primarily in medium profound ponds (and not in shallow or deep ponds). From the Ms it
becomes not clear if these treefrog tadpoles occur in medium deep ponds additionally to the
species according also in shallow and deep ponds. I suggest that the authors elaborate more on
this and in general on the question why actually FD is higher in medium deep ponds? This is
basically the interesting point here, i.e. not only to provide data on the patterns in ponds but to
provide (i.e., speculate) about the processes that lead to these patterns…
7
Lines 182 to 189: The authors provide here conclusions addressing the management of cultural
landscapes, and recommend to conserve ponds of different depths, i.e., a pond-depth gradient.
This is not obvious; why not recommending to conserve only ponds of medium depth as these
ponds have highest FD (and species richness)? Do shallow and/or very deep ponds harbour
species that are not found in medium deep ponds? The authors might provide some more
explanations for their recommendation.
Figure 2 is uninformative and could be omitted; subsequently the information could be included
in the text.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150165)
15-Jun-2015
Dear Dr da Silva
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150165 entitled
"Relationship of pond habitats’ depth with functional diversity of tadpole in an agricultural
landscape" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
•Language
Please have your manuscript copy-edited by a native English speaker before you resubmit.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
8
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 24-Jun-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
9
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150177)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
Dear Editors, Royal Society Open Science
Please find enclosed a manuscript entitled "Relationship of pond habitats’ depth with
functional diversity of tadpole in an agricultural landscape" by Cássia de S. Queiroz,
Fernando R. da Silva and Denise de C. Rossa-Feres that we would like you to
consider for publication in Royal Society Open Science. This manuscript is a
resubmission (ID RSOS-140189) since the first decision (October 14, 2014) was
reject and allow resubmission. We apologize in advance, but health problems
concerning with corresponding author prevented that the manuscript was resubmitted
within the recommended period (April 13, 2015). We appreciate the comments and
valuable suggestions provided by the reviewers. We have revised the manuscript
according to their suggestions, including doing further data analyses, and we feel our
manuscript has greatly benefited from their input. You will find detailed responses to
each point in the letter below.
We appreciate the time and effort you have given us.
Sincerely,
Fernando Rodrigues da Silva and co-authors
COMMENTS FROM REVIEWER 1
COMMENT 1: Although the topic that the authors choose to perform their research
is of increased concern for ecologists in general, I have some major concerns that, in
my opinion, contaminated the results gathered by the authors. The definition of
functional categories of tadpoles and the low variation in explanatory variables (and
consequently not sufficient amount of samples) probably contaminated the result.
These major flaws result in a not surprisingly result, that deeper ponds can have more
species morphologically adapted to deeper ponds.
REPLY: We agree that the low number of samples could affect the results.
Therefore, for this new version of the manuscript we increased from 12 to 38 the
number of ponds analyzed. The new results showed a humped shaped association
between FDis values and depth gradient of ponds. Thus, shallow and deep depths
may act as filters for some frog tadpole traits, contributing to this discrepancy in
functional diversity along a depth gradient.
Major comments:
COMMENT 2: I have some concerns with the design of the experiment in the
manuscript. First, why the authors choose to present functional richness and
functional dispersion? Are these two index complimentary or measuring different
properties of functional diversity? The use of these two index seems redundant and I
think that the authors should opt to present only the functional dispersion, because it
was not correlated to species richness. However, it is well known that species
richness can inflate functional diversity, thus the authors should take in consideration
to weight the index by species richness, as they have some ponds with low richness
(two species) and other with high richness (ten species).
REPLY: Thank you for your suggestions. According to Laliberte & Legendre (2010,
Ecology vol. 91, 299–305) and our previous results, functional dispersion (FDis) is
positively related to functional richness (FRic). Therefore, following your
recommendation, for this new version of the manuscript we decided to present only
the functional dispersion. We described the advantages of this index in the
manuscript (Please see Page 5, Line 120). To eliminate the effects due to species
richness difference in the ponds, we tested whether observed FDis values for each
pond were higher or lower than simulated values, using a null model in which
species richness was fixed and only the identities of the species in the ponds were
randomized 999 times. To obtain a significance test, we computed where the
observed value ranks in the null distribution, then we calculated a P-value by
dividing it by the number of null model interactions plus one (Swenson 2014,
Functional and Phylogenetic Ecology in R, Springer, pp.212).
COMMENT 3: Another concern is related to the functional classification of
tadpoles. A more detailed description is needed to permit evaluation of the authors
classification. Just reading table S2 I'm unable to distinguish the difference between
antero-ventral and terminal oral disc position. Also, there are some incongruence
with the authors classification and literature description for some functional traits.
For example, the authors classificated tadpoles of Dendropsophus elianeae as
scratcher, but in literature these tadpoles are classified as macrophagous (ingestion of
the entire food particule). Also, for Rhinella schneideri benthic-nektonic should be a
third functional category or the tadpoles should be placed in the other two category
(construction of dummy variables)? Another example is Trachycephalus venulosus
classified as filter, but the tadpole have the scratcher apparatus.
REPLY: Thank you for calling our attention for these points. For this new version of
the manuscript we reclassified the traits of some tadpoles’ species (Please see
Appendix Table S1) and described how we determined the position of oral disc
(Please see Table 1, Page 14).
COMMENT 4: Another problem is related to the second predictor variable, the
number of vegetation in the interior of ponds (NVI). This variable is highly
unbalanced among factor levels, with level 4 overestimated. Thus, I think that the
lack of association between functional diversity and NVI could be a artifact of the
low sampling.
REPLY: For this new version of the manuscript we increased the number of ponds
from 12 to 38 mitigating the problem of unbalanced factors.
Minor coments:
COMMENT 5: Page 3, line 56: The use of "determined" seems odd.
REPLY: We replaced “determined” by “recognised”.
COMMENT 6: Page 3, lines 57-58: environmental filters are deterministics
processes that can be acting jointly with other processes, like phylogenetic inertia, to
generate measurable patterns in animal assemblages. As the word is constructed,
environmental filters seems to be the only one deterministic process.
REPLY: We rewrote the sentence indicating that environmental filter is not the only
deterministic process.
COMMENT 7: Page 4, line 81: Figure 1 is not needed.
REPLY: For this new version of the manuscript we deleted Figure 1.
COMMENT 8: Page 4, line 93-94: I think that sloud be better "... ponds on species
richness..." instead of "... ponds in the richness of species...".
REPLY: We altered the sentence as you suggested.
COMMENT 9: Page 6, line 143: Treefrog?
COMMENT 10: Page 6, line 145: Treefrog?
REPLY: We replaced “frog tadpoles” to “treefrog tadpoles”.
COMMENTS FROM REVIEWER 2
COMMENT 1: The study by Queiroz, da Silva & Rossa-Feres examines the
relationship between environmental factors of amphibian breeding sites and the
functional diversity of larval anuran assemblages in an agricultural landscape in
Brazil. This manuscript is a follow up of an article published in Biodiversity and
Conservation in 2011, using data from the same system, however, analyzing now
data on ecological traits and functional trait diversity (FD) and their relationship to
environmental variables (pond depth, vegetation complexity). In the 2011 paper, the
relationship of species richness (SR) to these environmental variables was analyzed.
I do find it appropriate to split these analyses in two articles, however, I criticize in
this manuscript that the associations and interdependencies of SR, FD and the
environmental variables are not clearly separated. SR and FD of a species
assemblage are (almost always) positively correlated; as they are in this system.
Therefore, if there is a positive association between SR and pond depth (da Silva et
al. 2011), the positive association of FD with pond depth (this manuscript) is quite
trivial. Therefore, the authors might think about alternative possibilities to add new
aspects to this study using FD; e.g., analyzing relative (i.e., ~SR independent)
increases in FD using null-model approaches (as suggested by Petchey et al. 2002,
2006; although Petchey et al. are using different FD metrics), or at least discussing
these aspects more in details in the manuscript.
REPLY: Thank you for your suggestions. For this new version of the manuscript we
used a null model approach to separate the effects of species richness from FDis. We
tested whether observed FDis values for each pond were higher or lower than
simulated values, using a null model in which species richness was fixed and only
the identities of the species in the ponds were randomized 999 times. To obtain a
significance test, we computed where the observed value ranks in the null
distribution, then we calculated a P-value by dividing it by the number of null model
interactions plus one (Swenson 2014, Functional and Phylogenetic Ecology in R,
Springer, pp.212).
COMMENT 2: The spatial structure of species assemblages should be considered
when analyzing the association of diversity with environmental variables. This is
surely the case when analyzing the species composition and SR of anuran
assemblages, to disentangle effects of environmental factors (such as pond depth or
pond vegetation) and spatial distance between ponds. Therefore, I suggest including
spatial aspects in this study, either by testing for spatial autocorrelation (e.g., with
some kind of index such as Morans I) or by including spatial distances in the models.
REPLY: Thank you for calling our attention for this point. For this new version of
the manuscript, we used generalized least squares models with different
combinations of predictor variables taking spatial autocorrelation (i.e. locations close
to each other exhibit more similar values than those further apart) into account by
fitting an exponential spatial covariance structure (Dormann et al. 2007, Ecography,
30, 609-628).
COMMENT 3: The authors calculated two FD metrics, functional richness (FRic)
and functional dispersion (FDis). Although they correctly cite the paper where these
metrics are explained, they do not mention in the paper what exactly do these metrics
mean and what actually are the differences between them. The authors do neither so
in the methods or result section, nor do they explain in the discussion what the
(biological) significance and conclusion of the associations (or not) of these both
metrics with environmental variables really are.
REPLY: As recommend by Reviewer 1, for this new version of the manuscript we
used only functional dispersion (FDis) index that is not influenced by species
richness. We also made a better description of the biological significance of this
index in the methods (Please see Page, 5, Line 116) and discussion (Please see Page,
7, Line 161) sections.
COMMENT 4: I consider the analytical methods used in this study, i.e. the metrics
FRic and FDis, Gower’s distance as dissimilarity measure and the regression
statistics, as in general appropriate. However, I have some suggestions in respect to
the traits included in the FD metrics. Five of these traits (the categorical variables)
are rather independent (from each other) traits of tadpoles (e.g., position in the water
column). However, six traits are eco-morphological variables that probably are
highly correlated among each other and can be summarized as “body form”, which
then is seen as a proxy for microhabitat use and maybe other ecological and
behavioural characteristics of a species. I consider this approach in general as
appropriate, however, I am concerned that this “body form” is over-weighted (i.e.,
six out of eleven variables in the matrix) in the FD-analyses and the five categorical
and certainly very FD-relevant variables are under-weighted, respectively.
REPLY: Thank you for your suggestions. For this new version of the manuscript we
performed a principal component analysis (PCA) on measures of tadpoles’ body
form to reduce dimensionality and correlations between continuous variables within
our traits database (Table 1). The first two axes of principal component explained
75% of the variation considering these measures (see results in Appendix Table S3).
Therefore, for subsequent analysis we used the first two axes of PCA along with
categorical traits.
Appendix B
Dear Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
We appreciate the comments and valuable suggestions provided by the reviewers.
For this version of the manuscript, we incorporated all suggestions provided by the
reviewers. You will find detailed responses to each point in the letter below.
We appreciate the opportunity to publish in the Royal Society Open Science.
Sincerely,
Fernando Rodrigues da Silva and co-authors
COMMENTS FROM REVIEWER 1
COMMENT 1: I have now finished my review of the manuscript "Relationship of
pond habitats’ depth with functional diversity of tadpole in an agricultural
landscape", submitted for publishing in this journal. The topic that the authors choose
to perform their research is of increased concern for ecologists in general. All points
that I criticized in my previous review were considered by the authors, resulting in:
1 - Increased sample size
2 - Review of statistical approach
3 - Reclassification and better description of functional descriptors
The resulting manuscript presented a better improvement when compared with the
previous version. As a final concern, I'm not convinced that all traits choose by the
authors clearly represent a functional trait, but I agree that this is a major problem
that should be discussed in literature. In resume, I'm favorable that this version
should be published.
Kind regards,
REPLY: Thank you for your contribution for the improvement of the manuscript.
We agree that trait choices are an open discussion in the literature and we are
thinking considering writing a future manuscript testing morphological features as
functional traits for tadpoles.
COMMENTS FROM REVIEWER 2
COMMENT 1: Review of Queiroz et al.: Relationship of pond habitats’ depth with
functional diversity of tadpole in an agricultural landscape. This manuscript is a
resubmission. I believe that the authors addressed most concerns of both reviewers in
this revised version and changed the manuscript accordingly. Both reviewers
criticised the statistical analysis in the first submission. The authors adopted the
suggestions of both reviewers, and did a good job in doing so. I consider the statistics
now as appropriate, clear and straight-forward. The objectives of the study are
clearly formulated, methods and results are clearly presented, and the discussion is
well understandable and refreshing short. In general I recommend therefore
publication in RSOS. However, I recommend first a thorough revision of the English
language. The wording is often somewhat awkward, and expressions are
subsequently too imprecise. Unfortunately I am not an English native speaker myself
and can not help here (although I can criticize this obviously…mhm).
REPLY: This new version of the manuscript was reviewed by “American Journal
Experts - (https://www.aje.com/en)”, a specialized group that reviews and corrects
the grammar, spelling and other language errors in scientific manuscript.
COMMENT 2: Line 99 and elsewhere: “…of the influence of these predictors…”
This study clearly is showing statistical correlations, not necessarily causalities. If
this is formulated as speculative these correlations could be interpreted in a causal
context; however, the authors should check if this difference is accounted for
throughout the manuscript.
REPLY: Thank you for calling our attention for this point. We carefully
reviewed the text and changed words such as “explain”, “influence” and “determine”
into words that do not imply a causal relationship.
COMMENT 3: Lines 167 to 168: Please put species or genus names in italics.
REPLY: Done.
COMMENT 4: Discussion: Ponds of medium depth have a higher FD than shallow
or deep ponds. One reason according to the authors is that treefrog tadpoles (and
therefore the according traits) occur primarily in medium profound ponds (and not in
shallow or deep ponds). From the Ms it becomes not clear if these treefrog tadpoles
occur in medium deep ponds additionally to the species according also in shallow
and deep ponds. I suggest that the authors elaborate more on this and in general on
the question why actually FD is higher in medium deep ponds? This is basically the
interesting point here, i.e. not only to provide data on the patterns in ponds but to
provide (i.e., speculate) about the processes that lead to these patterns…
REPLY: In the discussion, we described that the FD is higher in medium deep
ponds because some tadpole species avoid occupying either short-hydroperiod ponds
(i.e. shallow depth) because of the high risk of desiccation, or permanent-water
ponds (i.e. deep depth) because of their elevated numbers of predators. Therefore, we
suggest that shallow and deep depths may act as filters for some frog tadpole traits,
contributing to this discrepancy in functional diversity along a depth gradient. We
hope to have clearly presented our hypothesis of the processes regulating the
evidenced pattern.
COMMENT 5: Lines 182 to 189: The authors provide here conclusions addressing
the management of cultural landscapes, and recommend to conserve ponds of
different depths, i.e., a pond-depth gradient. This is not obvious; why not
recommending to conserve only ponds of medium depth as these ponds have highest
FD (and species richness)? Do shallow and/or very deep ponds harbour species that
are not found in medium deep ponds? The authors might provide some more
explanations for their recommendation.
REPLY: We altered the text and for this version of the manuscript, we recommend
conserving ponds of medium depth gradient.
COMMENT 6: Figure 2 is uninformative and could be omitted; subsequently the
information could be included in the text.
REPLY: We believe that our figures are more representative than information
inserted directly into the text. Furthermore, because our manuscript is short and only
contains two figures, we would like to keep them in the manuscript.
Society Open
