TiO2 nanowire-templated hierarchical nanowire network as
water-repelling coating
Tian Hang, Hui-Jiuan Chen, Shuai Xiao, Chengduan Yang, Meiwan Chen, Jun Tao, Han-
ping Shieh, Bo-ru Yang, Chuan Liu and Xi Xie
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171431.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171431
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171431.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors developed a method to prepare superhydrophobic coatings, which also shows
repellence to oil and blood. I suggest this paper should be published after minor revision.
The authors should provide more information in Introduction to compare this work with
literature regarding the creation of micro/nano morphologies using TiO2 and ZnO for
superhydrophobic coatings. For example, Lu et al., Robust self-cleaning surfaces that function
when exposed to either air or oil, Science 347 (6226), 1132-1135; Campbell et al., Electrowetting of
Superhydrophobic ZnO Nanorods, Langmuir, 2008, 24 (9), pp 5091–5098 etc.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This work reported the fabrication of micro-nanoscale hierarchical nanowire network as self-
cleaning coating based on 1D TiO2 nanowires. The hierarchical nanowire network displaced
homogenous micro/nano-topography, and exhibited high repellency to water and cell culture
medium. This work provided a promising way of using nanowires as template to make micro-
nano-scale hierarchical coating. I recommend publication with minor revision on Royal Society
Open Science if the follow comments were able to address.
1) Tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane has been widely used as fluorinated
coating reagent (e.g. Nature Biotechnology, 2014, 32, 1134–1140), and it has better reactivity than
the perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane for functionalizing on oxide materials. Many works have used
tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane even to achieve omniphobic effects. Why the
authors used did not use tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane but instead using
the lower reactivity one.
2) The TiO2 nanowires were deposited on the substrate but not physically or chemically attached
to the substrate. Is it robust? Does it come off from the substrate during the ZnO nanowires
growth process.
3
3) Why using TiO2 nanowires as coating has advantages compared to directly making micro-
nano-toporgraphy/roughess on substrate? Making coating tends to be less mechanically robust.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171431)
26-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Xie,
Title: TiO2 Nanowire-templated Hierarchical Nanowire Network as Water-Repelling Coating
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171431
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 04-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
4
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
James Moore, Publishing Editor
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
RSC Subject Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors developed a method to prepare superhydrophobic coatings, which also shows
repellence to oil and blood. I suggest this paper should be published after minor revision.
The authors should provide more information in Introduction to compare this work with
literature regarding the creation of micro/nano morphologies using TiO2 and ZnO for
superhydrophobic coatings. For example, Lu et al., Robust self-cleaning surfaces that function
when exposed to either air or oil, Science 347 (6226), 1132-1135; Campbell et al., Electrowetting of
Superhydrophobic ZnO Nanorods, Langmuir, 2008, 24 (9), pp 5091–5098 etc.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This work reported the fabrication of micro-nanoscale hierarchical nanowire network as self-
cleaning coating based on 1D TiO2 nanowires. The hierarchical nanowire network displaced
homogenous micro/nano-topography, and exhibited high repellency to water and cell culture
medium. This work provided a promising way of using nanowires as template to make micro-
nano-scale hierarchical coating. I recommend publication with minor revision on Royal Society
Open Science if the follow comments were able to address.
1) Tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane has been widely used as fluorinated
coating reagent (e.g. Nature Biotechnology, 2014, 32, 1134–1140), and it has better reactivity than
the perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane for functionalizing on oxide materials. Many works have used
tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane even to achieve omniphobic effects. Why the
authors used did not use tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane but instead using
the lower reactivity one.
2) The TiO2 nanowires were deposited on the substrate but not physically or chemically attached
to the substrate. Is it robust? Does it come off from the substrate during the ZnO nanowires
growth process.
3) Why using TiO2 nanowires as coating has advantages compared to directly making micro-
nano-toporgraphy/roughess on substrate? Making coating tends to be less mechanically robust.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171431)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171431.R1)
08-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Xie:
Title: TiO2 Nanowire-templated Hierarchical Nanowire Network as Water-Repelling Coating
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171431.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
6
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
pendix A
ar Editor and Reviewers:
ank you very much for your letter and for the reviewers’ thorough and insightful
mments concerning our manuscript entitled “TiO2 Nanowire-templated
erarchical Nanowire Network as Water-Repelling Coating” (Manuscript ID
OS-171431).
have read reviewers’ comments carefully and found them very helpful for
ising and improving our paper. We have followed their suggestions and made
me revisions.
low we provide a point by point account of how the paper is revised according to
reviewers’ comments.
hope that our revisions make the paper now suitable for publication at Royal
ciety Open Science.
look forward to hearing from you.
cerely,
Xie
n Hang
i-jiuan Chen
viewer: 1
mments to the Author
authors developed a method to prepare superhydrophobic coatings, which also shows
ellence to oil and blood. I suggest this paper should be published after minor revision.
authors should provide more information in Introduction to compare this work with literature
arding the creation of micro/nano morphologies using TiO2 and ZnO for superhydrophobic
tings. For example, Lu et al., Robust self-cleaning surfaces that function when exposed to either
or oil, Science 347 (6226), 1132-1135; Campbell et al., Electrowetting of Superhydrophobic
O Nanorods, Langmuir, 2008, 24 (9), pp 5091–5098 etc.
Authors’ response:
We are grateful for the reviewer’s comment. We have now added a discussion on some
selected work about superhydrophobic TiO2 and ZnO coatings including the suggested
literature in the Introduction section as follows:
“Recently, much research has been focused on investigating the wetting behaviors of metal
oxide semiconductors such as TiO2 and ZnO for desirable functional properties.[1-6] For
instance, Lu et al. created an ethanolic suspension of perfluorosilane-coated dual-scale TiO2
nanoparticles as an excellent water repellent paint.[1] Campbell et al. studied the
electrowetting properties of ZnO nanorods with sputtered Teflon. Reversible wettabilities
were observed under a threshold voltage of 35 V.[2] Sun et al. synthesized ZnO hollow
microspheres with robust superhydrophobicity.[3] Although there has been significant
progress in fabricating hydrophobic coatings, the possibility of using nanowires as building
blocks for superhydrophobic hierarchical structure assembling is worth to be explored. In this
work…”
viewer: 2
s work reported the fabrication of micro-nanoscale hierarchical nanowire network as self-
aning coating based on 1D TiO2 nanowires. The hierarchical nanowire network displaced
mogeneous micro/nano-topography, and exhibited high repellency to water and cell culture
dium. This work provided a promising way of using nanowires as template to make micro-
o-scale hierarchical coating. I recommend publication with minor revision on Royal Society
en Science if the follow comments were able to address.
Tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane has been widely used as fluorinated
coating reagent (e.g. Nature Biotechnology, 2014, 32, 1134–1140), and it has better reactivity
than the perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane for functionalizing on oxide materials. Many works
have used tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane even to achieve omniphobic
effects. Why the authors used did not use tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane
but instead using the lower reactivity one.
Authors’ response:
We agree with the referee that tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane as
fluorinated coating reagent is very reactive and commonly used. However the presence
of tridecafluoro-1,1,2,2-tetrahydrooctyl trichlorosilane will hydrolyze during the
functionalization and the HCl produced may generate undesired damage to the ZnO
nanowire structure. In this study we use perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane to minimize the
unexpected influence on the structure and thus the surface modification can be achieved
either by vapor-phase or solution-phase deposition. Perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane as the
fluorinated reagent has also been frequently reported for surface modification of TiO2 [1,
7]
and ZnO [3] structures. We have now cited these references in the text as follows:
“To achieve desirable water-repelling property, samples were further modified to be
superhydrophobic by conjugating fluorinated silane (perfluorooctyltriethoxysilane[1, 3, 7])
on the surface to form a chemically bonded low surface energy layer.”
The TiO2 nanowires were deposited on the substrate but not physically or chemically attached
to the substrate. Is it robust? Does it come off from the substrate during the ZnO nanowires
growth process?
Authors’ response: We thank the reviewer for the comment. After deposition, the TiO2
nanowires were further immobilized by sputtering a 20-nm ZnO layer. The structure was
robust and the TiO2 nanowires did not come off from the substrate.
Why using TiO2 nanowires as coating has advantages compared to directly making micro-
nano-topography/roughness on substrate? Making coating tends to be less mechanically robust.
Authors’ response: We thank the reviewer for the comment. We agree with the referee
that in some cases micro-nano-topography/roughness structure could be directly
fabricated on substrate. However, such approach relies heavily on the intrinsic properties
of the chosen substrate. If the substrate material is unable to be fabricated with sub-micro
features or susceptible to the fabrication process, this approach become unsuitable to be
applied. Instead, using nanowires as coating may get rid of the restriction of substrate
types. Since the micro-nanoscale objects were physically absorbed or coated on the
substrate, it allows a variety of substrates to be functionalized with superhydrophobicity
regardless of the intrinsic material of substrate.
ferences:
u, Y., Sathasivam, S., Song, J., Crick, C. R., Carmalt, C. J., Parkin, I. P. 2015 Robust self-cleaning surfaces
t function when exposed to either air or oil. Science. 347, 1132-1135. (10.1126/science.aaa0946)
ampbell, J. L., Breedon, M., Latham, K., Kalantar-Zadeh, K. 2008 Electrowetting of superhydrophobic
nanorods. Langmuir. 24, 5091-5098. (10.1021/la7030413)
un, Z., Liao, T., Liu, K., Jiang, L., Kim, J. H., Dou, S. X. 2013 Robust superhydrophobicity of hierarchical
hollow microspheres fabricated by two-step self-assembly. Nano Research. 6, 726-735.
1007/s12274-013-0350-6)
elinski, A. R., Boban, B., He, Y., Kazyak, E., Lee, D. H., Wang, C., Tuteja, A., Dasgupta, N. P. 2017 Rational
ign of Hyperbranched Nanowire Systems for Tunable Superomniphobic Surfaces Enabled by Atomic
er Deposition. Acs Nano. 11, 478-489. (10.1021/acsnano.6b06463)
u, Y., Chen, W., Wei, S., Gao, W. 2014 TiO2/ZnO nanocomposite, ZnO/ZnO bi-level nanostructure and
nanorod arrays: microstructure and time-affected wettability change in ambient conditions. Rsc
ances. 4, 30658-30665. (10.1039/c4ra04904g)
andjani, A. E., Sabri, Y. M., Field, M. R., Coyle, V. E., Smith, R., Bhargava, S. K. 2016 Candle-Soot Derived
toactive and Superamphiphobic Fractal Titania Electrode. Chemistry Of Materials. 28, 7919-7927.
1021/acs.chemmater.6b03537)
ai, Y., Gao, X., Zhuang, H., Huang, J., Lin, C., Jiang, L. 2009 Designing Superhydrophobic Porous
ostructures with Tunable Water Adhesion. Advanced Materials. 21, 3799-3803.
1002/adma.200900686)
Society Open
