Nest wax triggers worker reproduction in the bumblebee
Bombus terrestris
Ann-Marie Rottler-Hoermann, Stefan Schulz and Manfred Ayasse
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150599.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150599
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 5 November 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 1 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 1 December 2015
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150136.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jelle van Zweden)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, very clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this study, the authors examine how the odour of the wax of the bumble bee Bombus terrestris
changes with the onset of the competition point, and how this may create a feedback loop for
workers to regulate their reproduction. The most significant finding is that when young workers
are exposed to wax from colonies in the competition phase, they too start competing more for
reproduction. Generally, the manuscript is very clear and nicely written, and I have very little to
add.
One thing, though, that I was wondering about is Figure 3a. It seems that most of the differences
in odour among all the samples is between four sterile workers and everything else, so that all the
other samples are clumped up in the corner. Firstly, why are the odours of these sterile workers
so variable? And which constituents of the bouquet are responsible for those four workers
plotting on the left? Likely, this is also part of the reason that the authors do not find a significant
increase in similarity between wax and sterile workers when moving to the competition phase
(Table 2); because the variability of the odour of sterile workers is too large. Could the authors
also please try to do the plotting and further analysis without those four outlier sterile workers?
Then we might have higher resolution in the plot and see what is really going on with the wax.
And we might see that the odour of the wax simply becomes more cuticle-like, and not only
reproductive-cuticle-like, which might lead to a slightly different interpretation of the results.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper investigates the potential signals responsible for the regulation of reproductive
conflicts in Bombus terrestris, which has become a model species for this kind of research owing
to the expressed conflict between workers and the queen. The paper is well written, but there are
a few issues that need to be addressed. The main one is that part of the literature on conflicts in
general and Bombus in particular has been ignored when discussing the results, and additional
others concern the methodology and analyses performed.
3
The current opinion about communication between conflicting individuals in social groups is one
of honest signals allowing adaptive decision-making. In the paper, the authors actually suggest
that several signals are involved, one of primer pheromone inhibiting worker ovarian activation
and another signal of fertility, which is shared between the queen and the workers. In my
opinion, it is far more parsimonious to propose a single signal of fertility as a regulator of
reproduction in social groups. Moreover, the recent research on bumble bees suggest that the
triggering signal of competition in bumble bees is a change in the queen odour which signal to
larvae to develop into reproductive and which is eavesdropped by workers. This has been shown
by Alaux et al. (2006) in one of the few papers from these authors not cited. In the papers from
this group, it is repeatedly shown that the competition point remains quite constant and that it
still happens despite a constant number of workers in the colony. These data need discussing in
the present paper which seems to be selecting the cited references to favour their conclusions.
The choice of behavioural tests also needs to be discussed, since some controls seem to be
missing, i.e. competition wax with competition phase queens and social wax with competition
phase queens. The workers are presented with an abnormal situation and it is known that they
are very sensitive to the odour context, for example in the case of intraspecific parasitism
(Yagound et al. PlOS One, 2012 and Blacher et al., Proc B, 2013).
In the chemical analysis, only workers from competition phase colonies are analysed, but it is
know that during social phase a great proportion of workers are already fertile, which raises the
question why workers in social phase were not sampled and which questions the hypothesis of a
primer inhibiting pheromone.
Additionally, there are some points along the MS which needs to be addressed or discussed:
Introduction
L81-87: the current hypothesis of a change in queen signal needs to be presented. It seems to be
occulted in the present MS
L90-91: cite Blacher et al. (2013, Frontiers in Zoology)
Material and Methods:
L188-189: Are the queens related to the wax that is used?
Why is a comb of competition phase brood not used?
L205-206: observed behaviours are not defined, and a few behaviour which are classically
observed (buzzing, front leg movements, threatening, head butting) are apparently not
considered.
The method used to measure ovary activation is not clearly detailed. It was obviously done a
posteriori. How is a laying worker defined?
L244: please detail what repeated measure approach is used in the GLMM.
L252-259: Normality and homoscedasticity is required in order to perform these tests. Were they
tested?
Results:
The sample sizes need to be stated clearly in the results section.
L266: the first NMDS analysis has a stress value which is higher than the threshold defined by the
authors and in the second wax samples seem all superposed (L288 suggests otherwise). How to
interpret this?
L289-295: (Tukey<0.05 for all pairwise comparisons) please state explicitly what was tested.
The figure with individual compounds is hard to read, and the differences are not that big. C25
which has recently been proposed as an important compound in signalling fertility is not present
in the significantly different compounds, why could this be?
L331-340: The statistical analysis is unclear, many comparisons being made and moreover one of
the GLM result is not significant (F3,16=2.626, p=0.086) however post-hoc tests seem to be
presented nonetheless. Please clarify.
Table1: the category methylated alkenes present compounds which are methyl-alkAnes, please
check
Discussion:
L347-348: This increase is most likely linked to the higher number of workers contributing to the
wax scent during the later stages of colony development
4
Wax is constantly reused and accumulates in the colony. How are the authors so sure about their
conclusion? Do we know if all workers contribute to the wax equally? Why is the queen always
excluded from the hypotheses.
L350-351: Other papers (see main comments) have shown that the competition point does not
differ between entire colonies and colonies limited to 20 workers.
L354-356: The hypothesis of queen control is now very little popular in the recent literature, yet
the results are only discussed in light of this hypothesis and not the most recent and supported
ones. Please modify.
L398-401: Here again, a possible influence of the queen is discarded.
L421-422: yet again an influence of the queen is not considered, perhaps she monitors the state of
the colony, and not workers.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150136)
22-May-2015
Dear Ms Rottler-Hoermann:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150136 entitled "Nest wax triggers worker reproduction in the bumblebee
Bombus terrestris" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The
comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 19-Nov-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150599)
See Appendix A.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-150599.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jelle van Zweden)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Lines 259-266. I have a small remark about the statistical analysis of the
behavioural/physiological data: were these really analysed using a multivariate GLM, i.e. the
three dependent variables were tested in de same model? That seems strange given that these are
both frequency and proportional data. More importantly, these are not normally distributed
dependent variables.
I think it would be more correct to test (i) the number of interactions in a Poisson-distributed
GLM, whereas (ii) the proportion of agonistic interactions should be tested in a binomial
distribution model, and (iii) the ratio of developmental states of worker ovaries in a multinomial
model or two separate binomial models. Please provide further details on this choice of analysis
and potentially the results of a reanalysis with different models.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
6
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have adressed many of the doubts I had about the MS, however the authors have
also chosen not to take into account the commentaries I have made. Although the paper is more
balanced, it still lacks a real discussion on the evidence for queen control (not necessarily through
inhibition, as the authors keep thinking) over the timing of reproduction.
The explanation about why the queen does not compete in experimental groups with laying
worker has to be removed as it is not a convincing example of adaptive behaviour and it more
likely points out to the unnatural situation proposed in the experiments.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150599)
24-Nov-2015
Dear Ms Rottler-Hoermann
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150599 entitled
"Nest wax triggers worker reproduction in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 03-Dec-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
7
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150599)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
Reviewer 1
In this study, the authors examine how the odour of the wax of the
bumble bee Bombus terrestris changes with the onset of the
competition point, and how this may create a feedback loop for
workers to regulate their reproduction. The most significant finding
is that when young workers are exposed to wax from colonies in the
competition phase, they too start competing more for reproduction.
Generally, the manuscript is very clear and nicely written, and I
have very little to add.
One thing, though, that I was wondering about is Figure 3a. It seems
that most of the differences in odour among all the samples is
between four sterile workers and everything else, so that all the
other samples are clumped up in the corner. Firstly, why are the
odours of these sterile workers so variable? And which constituents
of the bouquet are responsible for those four workers plotting on
the left?
Likely, this is also part of the reason that the authors do not find
a significant increase in similarity between wax and sterile workers
when moving to the competition phase (Table 2); because the
variability of the odour of sterile workers is too large.
Could the authors also please try to do the plotting and further
analysis without those four outlier sterile workers? Then we might
have higher resolution in the plot and see what is really going on
with the wax. And we might see that the odour of the wax simply
becomes more cuticle-like, and not only reproductive-cuticle-like,
which might lead to a slightly different interpretation of the
results.
>> We thank reviewer 1 for his helpful comments on our manuscript.
In fact we agree that the high variability of sterile worker
profiles in our previous version of figure 3a can lead to the
assumption that our interpretation of differences and distances
between different profile types might be affected by what the
reviewer calls “outlier sterile workers”.
However, these comparatively strong variations among sterile worker
profiles are not a mere artefact of the dataset included in the
analyses. In fact we have a further manuscript in preparation which
deals exactly with this observation and potential influences on the
cuticle profile of workers.
Instead of removing the outliers we increased the sample size used
in the comparison between wax and cuticle-surface profiles to show
that the variation of cuticle profiles of sterile workers is not an
artefact (new figure 3a and b). With this measure we also addressed
a main issue of the second reviewer who suggested to include social-
phase workers.
In the new plotting the wax profiles are still clustering together
as they are far more homogenous (despite pronounced differences
between social and competition phase see ANOSIM statistics and
figure 2b)than the profiles of workers and queens. The analyses of
the bigger dataset resulted in similar results presented before.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper investigates the potential signals responsible for the
regulation of reproductive conflicts in Bombus terrestris, which has
become a model species for this kind of research owing to the
expressed conflict between workers and the queen. The paper is well
written, but there are a few issues that need to be addressed.
The main one is that part of the literature on conflicts in general
and Bombus in particular has been ignored when discussing the
results, and additional others concern the methodology and analyses
performed.
>> We had no intention to deliberately omit individual publications,
e.g. the reviewer claims that we ignored the study of Alaux et al.
2006 in particular (see further down). Our manuscript covers a
distillation of an enormous literature with the unfortunate but
inevitable consequence that not every publication dealing with
social conflict in bumblebees could be covered. With the 67
references included, we attempted to reflect the consensus
understanding of our topic. In our opinion, our references represent
the extensive work of all present and former social insect
researchers that dealt with the conflict over male production in
bumblebees.
The current opinion about communication between conflicting
individuals in social groups is one of honest signals allowing
adaptive decision-making. In the paper, the authors actually suggest
that several signals are involved, one of primer pheromone
inhibiting worker ovarian activation and another signal of
fertility, which is shared between the queen and the workers. In my
opinion, it is far more parsimonious to propose a single signal of
fertility as a regulator of reproduction in social groups.
>> We do not agree with the reviewer in this point. The reviewer
implies that there is already a consensus regarding the question
primer pheromone yes/no. However there are still several
authors/studies considering the existence of a primer pheromone in
Bombus terrestris (Alaux et al. 2006 being just one of them. We have
reasons to not exclude the existence of a primer pheromone as we
have unpublished data on queen-associated compounds (very low
amounts) that suppress ovarian development in queen-less workers
which thus can be considered to have a primer function in addition
to the fertility signal displayed on the cuticle of fertile females
(both queens and fertile workers).
Moreover, we have to call attention to the fact that our present
study is not assessing the existence of a primer pheromone or not,
it references both sides and doesn’t argue for either or.
As stated in the introduction L90-91: “In this study, we have
focused on nest wax as a possible information source in B.
terrestris colonies that might allow workers to optimize the timing
of egg laying”. And our group experiments show that despite the
presence of a queen - who might signal fertility and/or emit a
primer pheromone or not - worker reproductive behaviour and
physiology is influenced by information provided by the nest wax.
Moreover, the recent research on bumble bees suggest that the
triggering signal of competition in bumble bees is a change in the
queen odour which signal to larvae to develop into reproductive and
which is eavesdropped by workers. This has been shown by Alaux et
al. (2006) in one of the few papers from these authors not cited. In
the papers from this group, it is repeatedly shown that the
competition point remains quite constant and that it still happens
despite a constant number of workers in the colony. These data need
discussing in the present paper which seems to be selecting the
cited references to favour their conclusions.
>> As mentioned before, we had no intention to deliberately omit
individual publications to support our conclusions as the reviewer
suggests.
We are well aware of the elaborate studies performed by Alaux et al.
and cited several of those throughout our manuscript: Alaux et al.
2004 [20], Alaux et al. 2007 [28], Alaux et al. 2005 [38], Alaux et
al. 2004b [40] as well as other work from this group: Bloch & Hefetz
1999b [19], Amsalem & Hefetz 2011 [37], Amsalem & Hefetz 2010 [55],
Hefetz et al. 1996 [60], Amsalem et al. 2009 [61].
We included Alaux et al. 2006 <U+F0E0> [42]– see L84 (the findings that
direct contact to gyne larvae advances worker competition that
support the findings of Alaux et al. 2004b [40]). However, against
the wish of the reviewer, we do not include one of the conclusions
from this study – see response to reviewer comments on Introduction
L81-87.]
We included the hypothesis that the queen influences the onset of
gyne production (which is one factor influencing the onset of
competition) in our discussion as follows (L448-451): “Several studies of
the conflict over male production have suggested that the presence of queen larvae at a later stage of
colony development influences the onset of competition over reproduction [16,36,38-41] and that a
shift in queen signalling might be responsible for the changing fate of diploid larvae [38,40,42].”
The papers of the group show that the onset of competition is quite
constant when linked to gyne production. However, gyne production is
not a necessity for worker reproduction. The competition phase also
occurs in colonies where no gynes are produced. The proximate
mechanisms responsible for the onset of competition in these
colonies cannot be explained by the findings in regard to the onset
of gyne production, e.g. Alaux et al. 2005 [38]. We added
information as recommended by the reviewer and indicate the
contradicting findings as follows (L365-366): Previous studies have shown a
link between worker number and the timing of worker reproduction in bumblebee colonies [14,15,35,
but see 38].
The choice of behavioural tests also needs to be discussed, since
some controls seem to be missing, i.e. competition wax with
competition phase queens and social wax with competition phase
queens.
The workers are presented with an abnormal situation and it is known
that they are very sensitive to the odour context, for example in
the case of intraspecific parasitism (Yagound et al. PlOS One, 2012
and Blacher et al., Proc B, 2013).
>> In the present manuscript we tested whether nest wax can trigger
the transition from social to competition behaviour in queen-right
worker groups. For this purpose we tested if competition-phase wax
had an effect on worker behaviour and physiology. In our main
control the groups were presented with social phase wax
(hypothesized outcome: workers should refrain from competition). We
additionally checked the behaviour and physiological development of
queen-right worker groups with no nest context at all to see (1) if
the absence of certain cues that might have been associated with
social-phase wax stops workers from reproducing and (2) to see if
our handling and grouping of the animals alone would be perceived as
stress and would thus elicit reproductive competition (stressed
colonies do start to compete for reproduction earlier).
As the reviewer mentions, bumblebee workers do indeed react very
sensitive to abnormal situations. That is why we (1) performed all
our bioassays with groups of newly emerged workers that have as
little preliminary experience with their maternal colony as possible
and are thought to accept the artificial condition as their home
colony (similar principle that slave making ants take advantage of
when capturing brood from their victims). (2) We added a further
control treatment and exposed similar groups to small intact nests
as we could not that adding nestwax without the context of comb
structure and larvae would be perceived as an “abnormal situation”
and would thus affect worker behaviour. (3) Furthermore, the
pronounced effect of nest wax on worker reproduction that we were
able to show in our experiments is consistent with the interesting
findings of Yagound et al. PlOS One, 2012 (citation [29]). It might
even explain why drifting workers only reproduce when they find
themselves in a competition phase colony (mentioned in L71-L72 of
our introduction) and refrain from reproduction in a social phase
colony even though they are not related to the new colony and gain
no genetic benefit from the upbringing of foreign brood.
The reviewer also requested further controls as we did use social-
phase queens only and performed no experiments with competition-
phase queens. This had basically two main reasons: 1) the queens
(and group size) were selected to resemble typical early social
phase colonies as closely as possible where workers would usually
refrain from reproduction under natural conditions. And 2) Bloch et
al. 1996 has already shown that competition phase queens are able to
prevent competition in worker groups (see other responses on
reviewer comment on L81-87).
In the chemical analysis, only workers from competition phase
colonies are analysed, but it is know that during social phase a
great proportion of workers are already fertile, which raises the
question why workers in social phase were not sampled and which
questions the hypothesis of a primer inhibiting pheromone.
>> We are aware of fertile workers in social-phase colonies, as
stated in the Introduction L.65-71: “However, queens are not capable of
completely preventing ovarian development in workers; they merely delay it [26]. In the presence of a
fertile queen (queen-right colony), 40% of the workers are capable of laying eggs by ten days after
their emergence [11], [...]. Nonetheless, workers with mature ovaries refrain from oviposition and
resorb ripe eggs during the social phase of a queen-right colony [10,11,16].” In our opinion
this delay in ovarian development might be caused by a primer
pheromone (there is no evidence that the chemical profile of fertile
workers (fertility signal) has a similar effect).
We followed the advice of the reviewer and included the chemical
data of sterile and fertile workers from social phase colonies (see
data) and changed the respective result section, figure3(a),(b),(c),
online data, Appendix B.
Additionally, there are some points along the MS which needs to be
addressed or discussed:
Introduction
L81-87: the current hypothesis of a change in queen signal needs to
be presented. It seems to be occulted in the present MS
>> In L81-87 we state that our study examined whether cues from the
nest environment affect worker reproduction as assumed by several
studies. Our text does not indicate that there are no other
hypothesis regarding conflict over male production that might still
need testing.
A change in queen signals which is suggested in Alaux et al. 2006
(see previous comments) is a further factor that can influence
worker reproduction and is one of the oldest hypothesis on the onset
of completion phase. However in our opinion this hypothesis has been
proven false by Bloch et al. 1996 who showed that queens from
competition phase colonies are perfectly capable of maintaining a
social-phase-like status in worker groups [Alaux et al. 2006 seem to
contradict the findings of Bloch et al. 1996 – however experiments
were performed with colonies whose workers have been anesthetized
beforehand with CO2 to make a queen transfer possible; CO2 is known
and used as a standard method in bumblebee cultivation to stimulate
ovarian development and egg laying in bumblebees – in our opinion
this might explain why these workers started to reproduce earlier in
the presence of a competition phase queen (there was no control with
a social phase queen and the same worker treatment))]
We agree that the presence of gyne larvae influences the onset of
reproduction (as shown in [38, 40] and that a change in queen
signalling might be responsible for triggering gyne production. In
regard to the onset of worker reproduction which is the main focus
of the present manuscript, it has been shown, that competition for
reproduction is not necessarily linked to gyne production (and thus
to signals that might affect gyne production) as the competition
phase also occurs in early-switching colonies that produces males
only.
As the reviewer recommended we included the potential role of a
shift in queen signalling influencing the onset of gyne production
and thus indirectly influencing worker reproduction in our
discussion as follows(L448-451): “Several studies of the conflict over male
production have suggested that the presence of queen larvae at a later stage of colony development
influences the onset of competition over reproduction [16,36,38-41] and that a shift in queen
signalling might be responsible for the changing fate of diploid larvae [38,40,42].”
L90-91: cite Blacher et al. (2013, Frontiers in Zoology)
>> We included the reference [47]
Material and Methods:
L188-189: Are the queens related to the wax that is used?
>> We changed from “In all groups workers were not related to the queen and were not
exposed to wax or nest from their mother colonies.” to “In all groups workers were not related to
the queen and both queens and workers were not exposed to wax or nest from their original colonies.”
(L190-192).
Why is a comb of competition phase brood not used?
>> We did not use comb of competition phase brood as previous
studies have already shown that the presence of queen larvae can
influence the onset of competition. However, the competition phase
also occurs in colonies were no gynes are reared (Duchateau and
Velthuis 1988). Thus, we tested whether wax from an older colony is
sufficient to trigger competition phase and we found that contact
with queen larvae was not needed to trigger competition in workers.
As already stated in our discussion, we cannot yet exclude that
chemical compounds associated with queen larvae might have triggered
competition in our experiment (L447-448).
L205-206: observed behaviours are not defined, and a few behaviour
which are classically observed (buzzing, front leg movements,
threatening, head butting) are apparently not considered. The method
used to measure ovary activation is not clearly detailed. It was
obviously done a posteriori. How is a laying worker defined?
All relevant threatening behaviour - including inclination of
mandibles and front leg movements – had been considered in the
behavioural analyses and are combined in our >aggressive
interaction< variable alongside with biting and stinging attempts as
well as darting events(what the reviewer calls head butting). When a
threatening event resulted in a direct biting or stinging attempt
(which usually was the case) it was counted as one aggressive
interaction event only. As the reviewer recommended we included a
more detailed description of the behaviours observed, and changed
“We determined the number of all interactions per minute within the group (sum of antennating and
agonistic interaction events between workers as well as between workers and the queen and vice
versa) and calculated the proportion of agonistic interactions that are associated with the establishment
of dominance in bumblebee colonies, i.e. aggressive (darting, biting and stinging attempts) and
defensive interactions (backing-off).” L.202-207 into: “We examined all direct interactions
between two workers or the queen and a worker and assigned the outcome of the interaction to one of
these three categories (and their associated behaviours): (i) neutral interaction (antennating), (ii)
aggressive interaction (threatening, i.e. front leg movements and inclination of mandibles, darting or
head butting, biting and stinging attempts), and (iii) defensive interaction (backing-off). In case a
threatening event was followed by an immediate attack these behaviours were counted as one
aggressive interaction. From this data we determined the total number of interactions per minute
within the group (sum of neutral and agonistic interactions) and calculated the proportion of
aggressive and defensive interactions that are associated with the establishment of dominance in
bumblebee colonies.” L204-213
In fact we also did count the occurrence of buzzing behaviour as
well as wing fanning that in our opinion might indicate overall
stress in workers and can thus also be associated with competition
over reproduction (see further down) and found no difference between
treatments.
The data is not presented in the present manuscript as we decided to
focus on the outcome of direct interactions between individuals.
Interaction events can be standardised based on the overall amount
of interactions which can differ considerably between more active
and more passive colonies and during the time of the day.
Our interactions were classified as follows:
Two workers meet (or the queen and a worker meet)
<U+F0E0> three options of outcome:
Neutral = antennating
Aggressive = biting, stinging, darting and/or threatening
Defensive = backing-off
Compared to this straight forward approach of classifying behaviour
based on interaction events, we do consider buzzing an undirected
behaviour as workers do not usually display this behaviour to
directly respond to a contact with another individual (no
interaction outcome). It rather seems to be a spontaneous display of
agitation of some sort that not necessarily affects the behaviour of
other workers. There is also no reason to believe that this
behaviour has an exclusive agonistic purpose (compared to stinging).
In whole colonies we also observed this behaviour associated with
brood care and displayed by returning foragers (Dornhaus & Chittka
1999 Nature). We think buzzing is a particular peculiar worker
behaviour potentially even associated with the release of chemicals
and would appreciate studies on its behalf.
>> Regarding the ovarian development we stated in L.213-219: After six
days at the end of the experiment, the workers were killed by being frozen at -20°C and were
dissected (under a stereo microscope) in distilled water to determine the developmental status of their
ovaries. We classified three developmental stages of the ovaries [11]: (i) undeveloped ovaries
(undifferentiated oocytes <0.18 mm), (ii) developing ovaries (initiated vitellogenesis, terminal oocytes
>0.18 mm, trophocytes still visible), and (iii) mature ovaries (at least one oocyte fully developed).
Egg laying workers as were used for the chemical analyses of cuticle
surface profiles were determined by direct observation of egg laying
and captured immediately afterwards.
L244: please detail what repeated measure approach is used in the
GLMM.
>> We chose generalized linear mixed models (SPSS) for non-normal
non-independent data as this model accounts for the non-independence
by adding random effects (in our case colony identity). In our case
the GLMM models a clustered (colony)response conditional on the
attributes of each individual cluster as a function of covariates.
L252-259: Normality and homoscedasticity is required in order to
perform these tests. Were they tested?
>> We are aware of the fact that our data is non-normal and
heteroskedastic. We face the same problem as does most biological
data published now and before that more often than not do not meet
the assumption of normality and homoscedasticity. We perform linear
models as these are assumed to be rather robust to departures from
these assumptions.
We included this information in the manuscript as follows:
“For the statistical analysis of the behavioural results, we computed a multivariate general linear
model (GLM, normality and homoscedasticity not assumed)” L259
Results:
The sample sizes need to be stated clearly in the results section.
>> As the reviewer recommended, we also added the sample sizes that
had been stated in the materials and methods section to our result
section. See L272 and L294-296
L266: the first NMDS analysis has a stress value which is higher
than the threshold defined by the authors and in the second wax
samples seem all superposed (L288 suggests otherwise). How to
interpret this?
>> As stated in L238-239 the NMDS was employed to visualize
differences and similarities of the datasets. The stress value
indicates the quality of visual representation (see L239-241) with a
stress value of < 0.1 (the “threshold” mentioned) indicating that
the visual representation of existing differences is very good. The
2D stress value of the first NMDS (see figure 2a) is indeed 0.18.
This indicates that the two dimensional figure does not “perfectly”
represent the differences between social-phase and competition-phase
wax (see ANOSIM results) – as can be seen in figure 2b some circles
representing social phase wax samples (visually) superpose with
circles representing completion phase wax despite pattern
differences.
For the resubmission we changed figure2a to a 3D version of the same
NMDS with a slight better stress value of 0.12.
In the second NMDS (figure 3a) including the cuticle surface profile
of queens and workers (stress value 0.09) the two dimensional
representation of chemical pattern differences was better. The wax
profiles are in fact clustering together as they are far more
homogenous (despite pronounced differences between social and
competition phase see ANOSIM statistics and figure 2b) compared to
the considerable variability of individual cuticle surface profiles
of workers and queen. We hope that the visual representation of the
profile differences is better (despite a stress value of 0.13) in
the new and bigger version of figure 3a including the added profiles
of sterile and fertile workers from both social-phase and
competition-phase as has been suggested in mainissue#V
L289-295: (Tukey<0.05 for all pairwise comparisons) please state
explicitly what was tested.
>> As the reviewer recommended we tried to clarify and changed as
follows : from “Kruskal-Wallis test, H2 = 167.43, df = 2, p < 0.001, post hoc Tukey: P<0.05,
comparing Bray–Curtis similarities of wax patterns and sterile worker, queen and fertile worker
profiles” L289-295 To “Kruskal-Wallis test, H2 = 19.06, p < 0.001, post hoc Dunn’s method:
p < 0.05 for average Bray-Curtis values (wax, sterile worker) versus (wax, fertile worker), and (wax,
sterile worker) versus (wax, queen); p > 0.05 for (wax, fertile worker) versus (wax, queen)).” L301-
304 (post hoc Dunn’s method was employed in the new analysis because
the samplesize of workers and queens were now unequal.)
[figure 3b] The figure with individual compounds is hard to read,
and the differences are not that big. C25 which has recently been
proposed as an important compound in signalling fertility is not
present in the significantly different compounds, why could this be?
>> We agree with the reviewer. The figure was developed according to
Proceedings guidelines. It was submitted as an eps file and in fact
turned out less readable than the original when turned into the
compiled pdf. We are sorry for this inconvenience and improved the
size and dpi for the resubmission.
>> We agree on the role of C25 in recent literature and included a
discussion of this compound as follows:
“Interestingly, we also found a slight increase in the relative amounts of Pentacosane (C25) in
competition-phase wax. This alkane dominates the cuticle surface profile of breeding queens and is
considered queen-caste specific ([22], own data see Appendix B). It has been shown to cause
secondary oocytes resorption in queenless colonies [22]. However, our bioassays indicate that the
presence of C25 in competition phase wax is not enough to prevent competitive behaviour and
increased fertility in callow worker groups.” (L391-396)
L331-340: The statistical analysis is unclear, many comparisons
being made and moreover one of the GLM result is not significant
(F3,16=2.626, p=0.086) however post-hoc tests seem to be presented
nonetheless. Please clarify.
>> We agree that the text version of the multiple comparisons made
by the multivariate GLM testing the effect of the four treatments
(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) is a little tedious to follow. That is why
our manuscript includes figure 4.
We agree that the post-hoc values (p>0,05) given for the pairwise
comparison of the percentage of developing ovaries between
individual treatments has to be removed as the GLM results has shown
that the treatments had no effect on that variable. We corrected
(L351-352). We also corrected the figure according to this
alteration (figure 4).
Table1: the category methylated alkenes present compounds which are
methyl-alkAnes, please check
>> We thank the reviewer for noticing. We corrected.
Discussion:
L347-348: This increase is most likely linked to the higher number
of workers contributing to the wax scent during the later stages of
colony development. Wax is constantly reused and accumulates in the
colony. How are the authors so sure about their conclusion? Do we
know if all workers contribute to the wax equally? Why is the queen
always excluded from the hypotheses.
>> We agree with the reviewer statement and included the suggestions
in our discussion as follows: L.359-362:This increase might be caused by a
constant reutilization of wax which can result in an accumulation of cuticular compounds over time.
The presence of a higher number of workers could additionally contribute to the observed increase in
wax scent during the later stages of colony development [16]. In mirroring the age of the colony
and/or the number of workers present in the colony, [...]
L.455-457:[...] Furthermore, it will be interesting to test whether queen and workers contribute
equally to the wax scent, or if for example fertile female bumblebees, produce more wax scales which
might explain the increased similarity of competition-phase wax profiles to the profiles of fertile
workers.
In our opinion we did not exclude the queen from our hypotheses. See
e.g. L443-446.
L350-351: Other papers (see main comments) have shown that the
competition point does not differ between entire colonies and
colonies limited to 20 workers.
>> The papers mentioned show that the onset of competition is quite
constant when linked to gyne production [38]. However, gyne
production is not a necessity for worker reproduction. The
competition phase also occurs in colonies where no gynes are
produced. The proximate mechanisms responsible for the onset of
competition in these colonies cannot be explained by the findings in
regard to the onset of gyne production, e.g. Alaux et al. 2005 [38].
We added information as recommended by the reviewer and indicate the
contradicting findings as follows (L365-366): Previous studies have shown a
link between worker number and the timing of worker reproduction in bumblebee colonies [14,15,35,
but see 38].
L354-356: The hypothesis of queen control is now very little popular
in the recent literature, yet the results are only discussed in
light of this hypothesis and not the most recent and supported ones.
Please modify.
>> Please see earlier response to the third main issue raised by the
reviewer.
L398-401: Here again, a possible influence of the queen is
discarded.
>> We changed from: “[...]dynamics in wax scent were more likely determined by
characteristic changes in the composition of the workforce with colony development, i.e. the higher
number of fertile workers in competition-phase colonies.” To “[...]dynamics in wax scent were more
likely determined by characteristic changes in the composition of the workforce with colony
development, e.g. the higher number of fertile workers in competition-phase colonies.
>> This alteration does not exclude the potential effect of a shift
in queen signalling on the wax scent (hypothesis included further
down). However we want to point out, that to us it seems rather
unlikely that the queen alone is able to considerably affect the wax
scent, particularly in a later stage of colony development when many
workers are present. A whole body extract of the queen contains
about 1.5 mg of cuticular lipids which is the same lipid amount as
in 6 mg wax. A whole colony in an early stage consists of rather 15
g and a later stage colony of more than 70 g of wax. Unless the
queen produces disproportionately higher amounts of cuticular lipids
and/or most of the wax scales her influence on colony scent should
diminish the more workers are present. Of course, we agree that
further studies on the contribution to wax scent are needed to
resolve this and similar matters (as stated in our Discussion L447-
454)
L421-422: yet again an influence of the queen is not considered,
perhaps she monitors the state of the colony, and not workers.
>> In the respective lines (now L442-443) we state our conclusions,
followed by an extensive discussion on further studies needed to
verify these assumptions (L443-457) – the queen is not excluded from
these considerations.
Appendix B
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Lines 259-266. I have a small remark about the statistical analysis of
the behavioural/physiological data: were these really analysed using a
multivariate GLM, i.e. the three dependent variables were tested in de
same model? That seems strange given that these are both frequency and
proportional data. More importantly, these are not normally distributed
dependent variables.
I think it would be more correct to test (i) the number of interactions
in a Poisson-distributed GLM, whereas (ii) the proportion of agonistic
interactions should be tested in a binomial distribution model, and
(iii) the ratio of developmental states of worker ovaries in a
multinomial model or two separate binomial models. Please provide
further details on this choice of analysis and potentially the results
of a reanalysis with different models.
>> We thank reviewer 1 for this very helpful advice. We agree and
consulted the new statistic expert in our department (now added in the
acknowledgements) and adapted according to his advice as follows:
(i) the number of interactions in a quasi-poisson-distributed GLM (not
poisson as our variable interactions per minute contains decimals (see
data provided));(ii) the proportion of agonistic interactions: we
changed to number of agonistic/neutral interactions per minute and
tested the number of aggressive and defensive interactions in individual
quasi-poisson-distributed GLMs (not binomial/multinomial as we did not
want to know whether the treatment affected the ratio between aggression
and defence but whether treatment affected the occurrence of one of
these behaviours); and (iii) the ratio of developmental states of worker
ovaries: we changed to number of workers per group with either
undeveloped, developing or mature ovaries; we tested if treatment had an
effect on the number of workers with undeveloped ovaries and workers
with developing ovaries in two individual quasi-poisson-distributed
GLMs. This approach was not possible for the number of workers with
mature ovaries as in most groups apart from the cp wax treatment no
workers had mature ovaries -> zero-inflated distribution. Thus we tested
whether the presence/absence of workers with mature ovaries within a
group was affected by treatment (binomial GLM).
We adjusted the data, the method (L213, 225, 261-269) and result section
(L333-335, L344-350) including figure 4 accordingly. The change in
statistics resulted in similar outcomes and did not affect the
interpretation.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have adressed many of the doubts I had about the MS, however
the authors have also chosen not to take into account the commentaries I
have made. Although the paper is more balanced, it still lacks a real
discussion on the evidence for queen control (not necessarily through
inhibition, as the authors keep thinking) over the timing of
reproduction.
The explanation about why the queen does not compete in experimental
groups with laying worker has to be removed as it is not a convincing
example of adaptive behaviour and it more likely points out to the
unnatural situation proposed in the experiments.
>> We thank reviewer 2 for his decision. Regarding Discussion L468-475
mentioned by the reviewer: “Interestingly we found no changes in the queens’ behaviour
between the different treatments. There were no signs of agitation or increased aggressiveness in the queens
that were grouped with workers that competed for reproduction in the competition-phase wax environment.
Several studies suggested that during the competition phase the workers are the major factor inhibiting the
reproduction of their nestmates [9,15,19]. As worker reproduction goes along with violent, even fatal,
interactions between members of the colony, including egg-eating, fights within the nest and occasionally
the death of the queen [17], it might be adaptive for queens to avoid aggressive interactions with workers.”
We agree that it is surprising that treatment did not affect the queen’s
behaviour in a similar manner as it affected worker behaviour. However,
we do not want to omit any aspect of our results. We think it is
possible that queens might not respond to changes in nest wax signals in
the same way as workers do, further studies needed (compare: queens do
not respond to fertility signals/queen pheromones in the same way as
workers). Our discussion makes no suggestions but only offers one
potential interpretation of this observation (“might be adaptive”).
Society Open
