How self-organization can guide evolution
Jonathan Glancy, James V. Stone and Stuart P. Wilson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160553.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160553
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 July 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 October 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160553.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I think that is a very good paper
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
General comments
This paper provides an interesting contribution to the understanding of identifying a model
system in which the interaction between self-organisation and selection can be investigated
empirically. To this end, authors investigate how the self-organising thermoregulatory huddling
behaviours displayed by many species of mammals and birds might influence natural selection of
the genetic components of metabolism.
The manuscript is clear in its form. However, I do not follow all of your assumptions and find
that the paper is lacking of biological and physiological explanations for assumptions and results
of the model. In particular, it is difficult for me to validate that model. I also suggest to narrow
this model to rodents, since much of the assumptions are derived from thermoregulatory studies
in rodents and that the discussion part also focuses on rodents (which is quite logic however
given that the majority of studies on huddling is related to rodent species). I would suggest to
revise the manuscript for the model to be applied on rodents and then broaden conclusions
cautiously in the discussion part.
Specific points
Introduction
Is that common for Royal Society Open Science articles to give results at the end of the
introduction?
3
Model
Lines 74-76: “Huddling allows an individual to reduce the proportion of its surface area that is
exposed up to a limit that depends on the number n of aggregated animals.” I agree but it also
depends on the geometry and morphology of the species. Moreover, it appears that there is an
asymptote to metabolic benefits linked to huddling for a certain number of individuals at a given
ambient temperature. This also depends on the species using huddling (see Gilbert et al. 2010).
Lines 77-78 equation 2: I do not understand your assumption. Could you explain? I guess that
this equation is valid on rodents, but not for other species.
Equation 3 to 5: hard to follow for a non-evolutionary and non-modelling researcher. Could you
explain?
Line 94: “a fitness which decreases with an increase in metabolic cost?
Lines 113 to 119: why such set ups? 20°C? 37kcal/day? 2kcal/day? 500 litters? Please explain.
Results
Line 154: evolution
Lines 185-190: I do not follow your explanations.
Discussion
I would suggest, given your model assumptions, that you focus your discussion on rodents. A
paragraph to broaden the discussion to other species would be interesting (e.g. not all huddling
species have BAT).
I do not follow all the discussion linked with the result of your model, and suggest to clarify it.
Lines 228-233: I don’t see the point.
Line 247: ok for rodents but some huddling species do not have BAT. Moreover, some rodent
pups do not have functional BAT in their first days of life. I feel that your assumptions are based
on studies considering rodents with functional BAT, which is not the case 1) for all newborn
rodents and 2) for all species using huddling.
Line 270: why do you suggest that huddling would mediate personality and emotionality?
Huddling behaviour is expected to be driven by personality and energetic requirements. Would
you explain your hypothesis? Cite other reference?
Line 274: “establish dominance hierarchies”: not proven by now. Cite another reference if proven.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160553)
12-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Wilson,
The editors assigned to your paper ("How Self-Organisation Can Guide Evolution") has now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 05-Oct-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160553
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
5
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I think that is a very good paper
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
General comments
This paper provides an interesting contribution to the understanding of identifying a model
system in which the interaction between self-organisation and selection can be investigated
empirically. To this end, authors investigate how the self-organising thermoregulatory huddling
behaviours displayed by many species of mammals and birds might influence natural selection of
the genetic components of metabolism.
The manuscript is clear in its form. However, I do not follow all of your assumptions and find
that the paper is lacking of biological and physiological explanations for assumptions and results
of the model. In particular, it is difficult for me to validate that model. I also suggest to narrow
this model to rodents, since much of the assumptions are derived from thermoregulatory studies
in rodents and that the discussion part also focuses on rodents (which is quite logic however
given that the majority of studies on huddling is related to rodent species). I would suggest to
revise the manuscript for the model to be applied on rodents and then broaden conclusions
cautiously in the discussion part.
6
Specific points
Introduction
Is that common for Royal Society Open Science articles to give results at the end of the
introduction?
Model
Lines 74-76: “Huddling allows an individual to reduce the proportion of its surface area that is
exposed up to a limit that depends on the number n of aggregated animals.” I agree but it also
depends on the geometry and morphology of the species. Moreover, it appears that there is an
asymptote to metabolic benefits linked to huddling for a certain number of individuals at a given
ambient temperature. This also depends on the species using huddling (see Gilbert et al. 2010).
Lines 77-78 equation 2: I do not understand your assumption. Could you explain? I guess that
this equation is valid on rodents, but not for other species.
Equation 3 to 5: hard to follow for a non-evolutionary and non-modelling researcher. Could you
explain?
Line 94: “a fitness which decreases with an increase in metabolic cost?
Lines 113 to 119: why such set ups? 20°C? 37kcal/day? 2kcal/day? 500 litters? Please explain.
Results
Line 154: evolution
Lines 185-190: I do not follow your explanations.
Discussion
I would suggest, given your model assumptions, that you focus your discussion on rodents. A
paragraph to broaden the discussion to other species would be interesting (e.g. not all huddling
species have BAT).
I do not follow all the discussion linked with the result of your model, and suggest to clarify it.
Lines 228-233: I don’t see the point.
Line 247: ok for rodents but some huddling species do not have BAT. Moreover, some rodent
pups do not have functional BAT in their first days of life. I feel that your assumptions are based
on studies considering rodents with functional BAT, which is not the case 1) for all newborn
rodents and 2) for all species using huddling.
Line 270: why do you suggest that huddling would mediate personality and emotionality?
Huddling behaviour is expected to be driven by personality and energetic requirements. Would
you explain your hypothesis? Cite other reference?
Line 274: “establish dominance hierarchies”: not proven by now. Cite another reference if proven.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160553)
See Appendix A.
7
label_version_2
RSOS-160553.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
ok
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Authors made a significant effort to improve their manuscript. I have no further comments.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160553.R1)
18-Oct-2016
Dear Dr Wilson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "How Self-Organisation Can Guide
Evolution" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
8
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Authors made a significant effort to improve their manuscript. I have no further comments.
Appendix A
Reviewer comments are listed in blue text, our responses follow after. All reviewer comments are in-
cluded in full, and unedited except that each point has been numbered. The numbering of additional
references in this document corresponds to the references list at the end of this document. Text that
has been added to the revised manuscript is indented and enclosed in quotation marks. The revised
manuscript includes 7 new references.
Reviewer 1
1. I think that is a very good paper
We thank reviewer 1 for taking the time to evaluate the paper, and for this positive response to it.
Reviewer 2
General comments
2. This paper provides an interesting contribution to the understanding of identifying a model system
in which the interaction between self-organisation and selection can be investigated empirically. To
this end, authors investigate how the self-organising thermoregulatory huddling behaviours displayed
by many species of mammals and birds might influence natural selection of the genetic components of
metabolism.
We also thank reviewer 2 for evaluating the paper, and for providing the set of helpful and constructive
comments below.
3. The manuscript is clear in its form. However, I do not follow all of your assumptions and find that the
paper is lacking of biological and physiological explanations for assumptions and results of the model.
In particular, it is difficult for me to validate that model.
After addressing each of the specific comments provided by reviewer 2 below, we feel that the clarity
of the paper has improved considerably, and that in the revised paper the grounds on which the model
should be validated are now more transparent.
4. I also suggest to narrow this model to rodents, since much of the assumptions are derived from
thermoregulatory studies in rodents and that the discussion part also focuses on rodents (which is quite
logic however given that the majority of studies on huddling is related to rodent species). I would suggest
to revise the manuscript for the model to be applied on rodents and then broaden conclusions cautiously
in the discussion part.
A major strength of the model is that it applies in general terms to the potential for animal behaviour to
interact with natural selection. Indeed, the major contribution of the paper is to identify a system (rodent
thermoregulatory huddling) in which this interaction can be tested empirically. As the reviewer notes,
rodent huddling is a logical system to use as an investigative model, because a large body of data has
been obtained from studies with rodents. For this reason the assumptions of the model are grounded
primarily in rodent data.
Therefore, we have. . .
i) removed reference to birds in the abstract and used “rodent” twice in the revised abstract.
ii) removed “feather” from the list in paragraph 2 of Model to de-emphasize birds, and extended the
following sentence to read: “The relationships between these factors have been well-characterised
for endotherms, in particular via experiments with rodents such as rats and mice, from which we
derive the majority of our modelling assumptions.”
iii) we have changed the word “animals” to “rodents” on page 5. Note that after these changes, all re-
maining uses of the word “animal” appear in the context of proceeding sentences/paragraphs where
the animals of reference are otherwise clearly identified to be rodents.
As a consequence of these changes, we have no doubt that the reader will see clearly that our modelling
assumptions derive primarily from rodent experimental data, and that rodent species are brought into
focus when we consider the evolution from ectothermy to endothermy in the general Discussion.
Specific points
Introduction
5. Is that common for Royal Society Open Science articles to give results at the end of the introduction?
A brief statement of the main contribution of the paper appears towards the end of the introduction
section, although the details of the results are not elaborated in full at this point. We feel that this
structure helps with the readability and overall narrative of the paper. However, we welcome the opinion
of the editors as to whether this structure adheres to the conventions for a Royal Society Open Science
manuscript.
Model
6. Lines 74-76: Huddling allows an individual to reduce the proportion of its surface area that is exposed
up to a limit that depends on the number n of aggregated animals. I agree but it also depends on the
geometry and morphology of the species. Moreover, it appears that there is an asymptote to metabolic
benefits linked to huddling for a certain number of individuals at a given ambient temperature. This also
depends on the species using huddling (see Gilbert et al. 2010).
We have elaborated the original statement in the text, adding:
“The degree to which increases in n can reduce the exposed surface area of the group varies
depending on the geometry and morphology of the species. Estimates of the exponent - 14
vary depending on the underlying geometrical assumptions about animal aggregation pat-
terns [1]. In practice, an exponentially decaying function of n, such that metabolic savings
asymptote for larger n, is supported by several investigations of aggregation in small mam-
mals ([2, 3, 4, 5, 6]; see also [7]).”
7. Lines 77-78 equation 2: I do not understand your assumption. Could you explain? I guess that this
equation is valid on rodents, but not for other species.
We have clarified this section, by rewording the text around Equation 2 and adding a short paragraph
after Equation 2 to explain precisely the assumptions on which it is based:
“Derived from geometrical considerations, it has been found that A has a lower limit which
varies with n, specifically,
1
n- 4 = A = 1.
According to Equation 2, the proportion of the surface area that is exposed has an upper
1
bound of 1 (i.e., when the entire body is exposed), and a lower bound of n- 4 (i.e., as the
number of available huddlers n increases, the minimum exposed surface area that they can
acheive, on average, by huddling together, decreases exponentially).”
8. Equation 3 to 5: hard to follow for a non-evolutionary and non-modelling researcher. Could you
explain?
We have added a sentence to the end of this paragraph to recap the steps involved in defining fitness
according to Equations 3-5:
“In summary, Equation 3 states how the size of the litter determines the extent to which the
exposed surface area can be adapted by huddling, Equation 4 specifies the resulting body
temperature, and Equation 5 incorporates the body temperature into the definition of a fitness
function that promotes homeothermy and penalizes higher metabolic rates.”
9. Line 94: a fitness which decreases with an increase in metabolic cost?
We thank the reviewer for alerting us to this. The ambiguity here derives from a typo – “metabolic cost”,
which has been corrected to “metabolic rate”, clarifying our assumption (see also response to point 8)
that an animal that achieves homeothermy at a high metabolic rate should be considered less fit than an
animal that achieves homeothermy at a lower metabolic rate.
10. Lines 113 to 119: why such set ups? 20C? 37kcal/day? 2kcal/day? 500 litters? Please explain.
The choice of the units here has no bearing on the assumptions of the model, or on the resulting effects
on the evolutionary dynamics, but we declare the units of the parameters in sensible ranges as a guide for
the ranges that we might expect to see in real experimental data. We agree that the choice of temperature
and the population size requires some justification, and have added the following sentence to clarify.
“Note that the behaviour of the model is robust to changes in the value of Ta , for ambient
temperatures below Tpref , and it is robust to variation of the population size. The value
chosen for Mmax represents the intuitive assumption that a mutation in metabolic rate which
causes the body temperature to exceed Tpref (when fully exposed to ambient temperatures
above 0<U+25E6> C) cannot be viable.”
Results
11. Line 154: evolution
This typo (originally “evoluton”) has now been corrected.
12. Lines 185-190: I do not follow your explanations.
Perhaps the confusion here is due to our use of the terms “explicit” and “implicit” without restating
exactly what we mean. To clarify, we have revised this paragraph, by referring directly to the relevant
terms in the fitness function:
“Explicit selection for litters with lower metabolic rates M , due to the appearance of M
in the fitness function (Equation 5), continually pushes the population towards the upper
boundary, above which litters are too cold. At this boundary, selection based on the failure
of high thermal conductances is implicit (because C does not appear as a term in the fitness
function); this effectively pushes the population away from the boundary to regions in the
fitness landscape where the potential for further reduction in the metabolic rate is greater.
The net effect is that the population maintains a distance from the upper boundary, and this
distance is determined by the rate and extent of mutation.”
Discussion
13. I would suggest, given your model assumptions, that you focus your discussion on rodents. A
paragraph to broaden the discussion to other species would be interesting (e.g. not all huddling species
have BAT).
In line with our response to the earlier point 4, we have removed most references to non-rodent species
throughout the paper. In the original manuscript no non-rodent species are mentioned in the Discus-
sion, as is still the case in the revision, although we do mention lizards as the ectothermic ancestors of
endotherms. In response to point 16 below we include a new paragraph discussing BAT.
14. I do not follow all the discussion linked with the result of your model, and suggest to clarify it.
We assume that the reviewer is referring here to the first paragraph of the Discussion, where we compare
the evolutionary dynamics to a search for “a needle in a haystack”. We appreciate that without a reference
to the modelling literature, where such analogies are familiar ways to describe combinatorially difficult
search problems, the point may not be transparent. We have therefore included an additional reference
here to the seminal paper by Hinton and Nowlan, which introduced this type of analogy, and provides a
useful primer to the reader unfamiliar with our approach to describing fitness landscapes in this way:
“A valid solution is combinatorially difficult to find by random search alone, like finding a
needle in a haystack (see [8]).”
15. Lines 228-233: I don’t see the point.
For clarification, we have edited this section to direct the reader to Figure 1 in a paper by McNab [9],
where the evolution from lizard to mammalian lineages, in a fitness landscape equivalent to that used in
the model (body mass (which is monotonic with metabolic rate) versus thermal conductance), is shown
to display a lateral drift similar in form to that derived from the model and shown in our Figure 2. We
have revised the text so that the interested reader can follow this idea up more easily:
“This account is corroborated by a transition from the lizard to mammalian lineages whereby
metabolic rate and thermal conductance remain constant as intermediate species drifted with
respect to body mass (compare Figure 2 in the present paper with Figure 1 in [9]).”
16. Line 247: ok for rodents but some huddling species do not have BAT. Moreover, some rodent pups
do not have functional BAT in their first days of life. I feel that your assumptions are based on studies
considering rodents with functional BAT, which is not the case 1) for all newborn rodents and 2) for all
species using huddling.
We have included a new paragraph to acknowledge that our discussion here is specifically about animals
with functional BAT, and to direct the reader who is interested in the critical role that BAT plays in hud-
dling to the original paper by Glancy et al. (2015), in which we developed a computational model and
systematically investigated the contribution of BAT thermogenesis to triggering the onset of thermoregu-
latory huddling behaviours. The new paragraph includes four additional citations to experimental papers
demonstrating the close link between BAT and huddling.
“BAT-thermogenesis is thought to be critical for effective huddling in rodents, as evidenced
by experiments showing that rats move to cooler locations when BAT is pharmaceutically
increased [10], and that huddling in rats ceases when BAT is pharmaceutically blocked [11].
Interestingly, Syrian golden hamsters, which are born without functional BAT [12], and do
not huddle until BAT becomes functional at around postnatal day 14, have been shown to
huddle when fostered into litters of weight-matched rats with functional BAT [13]. These
data are consistent with the central role of BAT thermogenesis in the self-organisation of
rodent thermoregulatory huddling behaviours, according to the model of [14].”
We feel that this is an appropriate modification of the manuscript, given that this topic was the main focus
of our 2015 article, and given our motivation to avoid redundancy and replication of the full discussion
that we dedicated to this issue in the earlier paper.
17. Line 270: why do you suggest that huddling would mediate personality and emotionality? Huddling
behaviour is expected to be driven by personality and energetic requirements. Would you explain your
hypothesis? Cite other reference?
We agree that this point is not as clear as we would have liked. As it is peripheral to our main discus-
sion, rather than develop the point more fully, we have removed this line. To maintain the flow of the
discussion, we have added the more general point:
“We might speculate that since first exploiting the thermoregulatory benefits of huddling,
evolution may have later exploited a variety of possible benefits of social thermoregulation
for later development [15, 16, 17, 18, 19]”
18. Line 274: “establish dominance hierarchies”: not proven by now. Cite another reference if proven.
This line has been removed.
In addition to the points listed by the reviewers, we spotted a minor mistake. In the penultimate paragraph
the original phrase “in warm environments” has been corrected to “reared in smaller groups”.
References
[1] Canals M, Bozinovic F (2011) Huddling Behavior as Critical Phase Transition Triggered by Low
Temperatures. Complexity 17: 35–43.
[2] Heldmaier G (1975) The influence of the social thermoregulation on the cold-adaptive growth of
bat in hairless and furred mice. Pflugers Arch 355: 261–266.
[3] Martin RA, Fiorentini M, Connors F (1980) Social facilitation of reduced oxygen consumption
in mus musculus and meriones unguiculatus. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part A:
Physiology 65: 519–522.
[4] Canals M, Rosenmann M, Bozinovic F (1989) Energetics and geometry of huddling in small mam-
mals. Journal of Theoretical Biology 141: 181–189.
[5] Canals MR, M R, Bozinovic F (1997) Geometrical aspects of the energetic effectiveness of huddling
in small mammals. Acta Theriologica 42(3): 321-328.
[6] Canals M, M R, F NF, Bozinovic F (1998) Modulating factors of the energetic effectiveness of
huddling in small mammals. Acta Theriologica 43(4): 337-348.
[7] Gilbert C, McCafferty D, Le Maho Y, Martrette JM, Giroud S, et al. (2010) One for all and all
for one: The energetic benefits of huddling in endotherms. Biological Reviews of the Cambridge
Philosophical Society 85: 545–569.
[8] Hinton G, Nolan S (1987) How learning can guide evolution. Complex systems 1: 495-502.
[9] McNab BK (1978) The evolution of endothermy in the phylogeny of mammals. The American
Naturalist 112(983): 1-21.
[10] Farrell WJ, Alberts JR (2007) Rat behavioral thermoregulation integrates with nonshivering ther-
mogenesis during postnatal development. Behavioral neuroscience 121: 1333–1341.
[11] Sokoloff G, Blumberg MS (2001) Competition and cooperation among huddling infant rats. Dev
Psychobiol 39: 65–75.
[12] Blumberg MS (1997) Ontogeny of cardiac rate regulation and brown fat thermogenesis in golden
hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Journal of Comparative Physiology B, Biochemical, Systemic,
and Environmental Physiology 167: 552–557.
[13] Sokoloff G, Blumberg MS (2002) Contributions of endothermy to huddling behavior in infant Nor-
way rats (Rattus norvegicus) and Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Journal of Com-
parative Psychology 116: 240–246.
[14] Glancy J, Gross R, J S, Wilson SP (2015) A self-organising model of thermoregulatory huddling.
PLoS Computational Biology 11(9): e1004283.
[15] Dimitsantos E, Escorihuela RM, Fuentes S, Armario A, Nadal R (2007) Litter size affects emotion-
ality in adult male rats. Physiol Behav 92: 708–716.
[16] Uriarte N, Ferreira A, Rosa XF, Lucion AB (2009) Effects of litter-overlapping on emotionality,
stress response, and reproductive functions in male and female rats. Dev Psychobiol 51: 259–267.
[17] Reyes-Meza V, Hudson R, Martnez-Gmez M, Nicols L, Rdel HG, et al. (2011) Possible contribution
of position in the litter huddle to long-term differences in behavioral style in the domestic rabbit.
Physiol Behav 104: 778–785.
[18] Hudson R, Bautista A, Reyes-Meza V, Montor JM, Rdel HG (2011) The effect of siblings on early
development: A potential contributor to personality differences in mammals. Dev Psychobiol 53:
564–574.
[19] Roedel HG, Meyer S (2011) Early development influences ontogeny of personality types in young
laboratory rats. Dev Psychobiol 53: 601–613.
Society Open
