Response to comment by Loiselle and Ramchandra
David Colquhoun
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150319.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150319
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 July 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 23 July 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 July 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150319.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Stephen Senn)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I did not agree entirely with your original paper for various reasons including that making a fool
of yourself can happen in both directions. Fellows of the Royal Society have not been immune:
Kelvin is supposed to have predicted that X Rays would turn out to be a hoax and that heavier
than air flight was impossible, Jeffreys said that continental drift was impossible, Richard van der
Riet Woolley said the same about space travel etc. You can make a fool of yourself by being over-
cautious as well. In fact I would say that making a fool of yourself comes with the job if you are a
scientist.
However, I agree with you that observing P<=0.05 is not at all the same as P=0.05 (or 0.047, in
your case). For example, the likelihood ratio of the former increases in favour of any given
alternative as the sample size increases but that is not true for the latter. See Senn, S.J., Statistical
issues in Drug Development, 2007 sections 13.2.8 and 13.29 for a discussion.
Another way of looking at it is to say that the resaon that being prepared to declare significance if
P=0.047 occurs does not commonly lead to a problem is that moderately significant results are
rare. If the null hypothesis is true most results will be non-significant anyway. The issue is rather
whether moderately significant results are even rarer under the alternative hypothesis. If so we
could redefine the limits for siginificance at little cost in terms of increasing false negatives while
saving many false positives. The improvement to the process as a whole would be small but it
would be worth making.
The value or not of such changes would depend on many assumptions. The one point with which
I disagree in your answer is where you state "The conclusion was that, under reasonable
assumptions..."
How reasonable they are is a point for debate.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Marcus Munafo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Prof Colquhoun has provided a response to an earlier commentary on his paper on the false
discovery rate. As he (and the authors of the commentary) point out, these analyses depend
critically on several key assumptions, and of course different individuals will bring different
assumptions. I think the commentary and the response make this point nicely, and readers will
be able to form their own judgement. My only comment is that I noticed a few very minor
typographical errors in the response which can be corrected at the proof stage.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150319)
13-Jul-2015
Dear Dr Colquhoun
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150319 entitled
"Response: A Counter-View of “An Investigation of the False Discovery Rate and the
Misinterpretation of p-Values”" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You may wish to alter the following part of your manuscript in light of reviewer 2's final
comment:
"The conclusion was that, under reasonable assumptions, in at least 26% of such cases, the null
hypothesis would be true, so you’d be wrong if you claimed to have discovered an effect. "
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest a minor
revisions as described above. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Please also ensure that you include the following.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 22-Jul-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
4
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Ms Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150319)
Revised response attached. The main change is the insertion of a new paragraph (the penultimate
paragraph) in response to referee 2, as requested, I have no conflicts of interest.
Society Open
