Receiving of emotional signal of pain from conspecifics in
laboratory rats
Satoshi F. Nakashima, Masatoshi Ukezono, Hiroshi Nishida, Ryunosuke Sudo and Yuji
Takano
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140381.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140381
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 March 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140381.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript of Nakashima et al. presents the case for a communicative function of the rodent
‘pain face’ originally described by Mogil and colleagues. Specifically, using a place preference
procedure the authors purport to demonstrate an aversive, communicative aspect of the pain face
only when it co-occurs with the appropriate body posture of conspecifics (i.e., pain face or body
posture alone appear to have no influence). I think this report will generate a great deal of
excitement, and as such I think the authors have some work to do in strengthening the
‘believability’ of this finding.
First, what is reported hinges almost entirely on what is presented in Figure 2A, and this effect
seems quite small. This figure panel, also, is not visually convincing. Acknowledging that the
authors are presenting here the mean ± standard deviation, I think they need to choose at least
one of 3 additional options. (1) If they stick with the s.d. (rather than the s.e.m.), they should
present all of the data points so that the reader can see the spread. (2) They utilize 2 distinct
statistical approaches to evaluate staying time (Figure 2, 5 t-tests) and entries (Figure 3, multi-
factor ANOVA), respectively. The latter I feel is the appropriate approach for both dependent
variables (followed up by post-hoc testing). If they stick with 5 t-tests for staying time they need
to correct for Type-I error. (3). Given that this is a relatively simple experiment, I think the
authors should just reproduce the principle finding with an additional experiment so that all
readers can be at ease with this preliminary graphical and statistical presentation.
Statements like the 2 I list below are inappropriate. Both are consistent with flight in insects, or
bats, being homologous with bird flight. There is no necessary role for homologous facial
expression here.
“Therefore, the communicative function of emotional expression might have evolved in
mammals before it did in primates.”
“Our results indicate that mammals may have acquired a communicative function of emotional
expression at an earlier stage of evolution than
primates did.”
If the authors do indeed think that their findings imply homologous facial expressions in
mammals during emotion, they should consult the work of Berridge and colleagues regarding
facial expressions to pleasant and aversive tastants.
The authors don’t mention habituating the rats to the place preference apparatus prior to the 10-
minute test. Habituations are the standard for both place-preference and conditioned place-
preference testing. The authors need to mention why they didn’t habituate their rats.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140381)
16th January 2015
Dear Dr Nakashima,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Receiving of emotional signal of pain from
conspecifics in laboratory rats") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 15-Feb-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140381.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Response letter
We greatly appreciate the reviewer’s and associate editor’s useful comments. We
modified our draft according to them.
Reviewer1’s comments
Comment #1
First, what is reported hinges almost entirely on what is presented in Figure 2A, and
this effect seems quite small. This figure panel, also, is not visually convincing.
Acknowledging that the authors are presenting here the mean ± standard deviation, I
think they need to choose at least one of 3 additional options. (1) If they stick with the
s.d. (rather than the s.e.m.), they should present all of the data points so that the reader
can see the spread. (2) They utilize 2 distinct statistical approaches to evaluate staying
time (Figure 2, 5 t-tests) and entries (Figure 3, multi-factor ANOVA), respectively. The
latter I feel is the appropriate approach for both dependent variables (followed up by
post-hoc testing). If they stick with 5 t-tests for staying time they need to correct for
Type-I error. (3). Given that this is a relatively simple experiment, I think the authors
should just reproduce the principle finding with an additional experiment so that all
readers can be at ease with this preliminary graphical and statistical presentation.
Response #1
According to your advice, we changed the method of statistical analysis for staying
time from 5 t-tests to 5 (condition)×2 (facial expression) two-way mixed factorial
ANOVA. As described on p. 10 line 5 – p.12 line 9, we found an interaction between
condition and facial expression (effect size <U+03B7>2 = 0.09). From subsequent analysis, we
found a significant difference between neutral and pain expressions in the original
condition (effect size <U+03B7>2 = 0.08), but not in the other conditions. We therefore consider
that the effect of expression in the original condition is sufficient regardless of the
method of statistical analysis. We also changed Figure 2 to reflect the change of the
statistical analysis. We replaced standard deviation with standard error.
In addition, we conducted an additional experiment to replicate our principle finding
with inclusion of a habituation phase before testing (p.12 line 12 – p.14 line 11). As
newly described in the paper, we were able to replicate our principle finding and
therefore consider that the results to be reliable.
Comment #2
Statements like the 2 I list below are inappropriate. Both are consistent with flight in
insects, or bats, being homologous with bird flight. There is no necessary role for
homologous facial expression here.
“Therefore, the communicative function of emotional expression might have evolved in
mammals before it did in primates.”
“Our results indicate that mammals may have acquired a communicative function of
emotional expression at an earlier stage of evolution than
primates did.”
If the authors do indeed think that their findings imply homologous facial expressions
in mammals during emotion, they should consult the work of Berridge and colleagues
regarding facial expressions to pleasant and aversive tastants.
Response #2
As you indicated, these two statements (p.2 line 8-10 and p.17 line 3-5) might be
misleading because we did not examine whether emotional expression of rats share
homology with that of other mammals.
We therefore rephrased these statements as follows
p.2 line 8-10 “Therefore, emotional expression in rodents, rather than just a mere
“expression” of emotional states, might have a communicative function.”
p.17 line 7-9 “Our results indicate that emotional expression in rodents, rather than just
a mere “expression” of emotional states, might have a communicative function.”
Comment #3
The authors don’t mention habituating the rats to the place preference apparatus prior
to the 10-minute test. Habituations are the standard for both place-preference and
conditioned place-preference testing. The authors need to mention why they didn’t
habituate their rats.
Response #3
Thank you for pointing that out. We did not use habituation because we considered that
the state of anxiety of the rats in the novel environment might enhance their sensitivity
for detecting pain expressions of other conspecifics. We worried that the rats might not
show their natural behavior to pain expressions because they might learn that the inside
of the boxes is safe if they are habituated to the boxes (as described in p. 12 line 12 –
p.13 line 2). We therefore did not habituate rats to the apparatus in experiment 1.
However, we have conducted an additional experiment (experiment 2) to examine the
effect of habituation on the behavior of the rats, and we verified that the results were
actually the same as in experiment 1 (p.12 line 12 – p.14 line 11). We therefore
consider that the presence or absence of habituation did not have any effect on the
results.
Associate Editor's comments:
Comment #1
Not least is the analysis of staying time where a full ANOVA with post-hoc tests is
required.
Response #1
As we mentioned above in our response to the reviewer, we changed the method of
analysis from simple t-tests to a two-way ANOVA. The results showed that a
significant interaction between condition and facial expression, and subsequent analysis
showed the effect of facial expression only in the original condition (p.10 line 5- p.12
line 9).
Comment #2
I won’t repeat the Reviewer’s points, all of which have a great deal of merit, but from
my own perspective I question the communicative framing of your results. You have
provided evidence that rats find the pained expression of other rats aversive, but not
that the pained rat attempted to signal the other rat, or that the perceiver rat recognises
that another rat is in pain (potentially required for communication). Presumably it is
also possible that rats have learned to associate pained expressions to negative
experiences - especially as these are laboratory rats. This possibility should be
discussed.
Response #2
Thank you for your useful comments. According to your suggestions, we add some
descriptions of alternative possibilities as below.
First, we absolutely agree with your suggestion that it is unclear whether perceiver rats
recognize that another rat is in pain; therefore, we added some description of this
possibility on p.17 lines 10 – line 13.
Second, regarding the possibility that perceiver rats learned association between pain
expression and aversive experience, we cannot deny the possibility that they learned
such an association with their cage mate during daily life. However, all of the animals
were naïve, so that they did not have an opportunity to learn the association between
pain expressions of other conspecifics and negative experience (foot shock) in our
laboratory, at least not in an explicit manner. We added some descriptions to explain
these possibilities on p.17 line 13 – p.18 line 10.
Third, as pointed out by you, we cannot verify the presence or absence of ”attempts” at
signaling in rats that were shocked. Although this is an interesting issue, it is clearly
outside the scope of our research, because the purpose of our research was “to examine
whether perceiver rats discriminate facial expression and change their behavior
according to the expression”. In the near future, we plan and conduct research to
examine this issue. I appreciate your constructive comments on our study.
Society Open
