Advances in synthetic gauge fields for light through
dynamic modulation
Daniel Hey and Enbang Li
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172447.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172447
Review timeline
Original submission: 31 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172447.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Yanpeng Zhang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Report on RSOS-172447:
The authors investigated the advances in synthetic gauge fields for light through dynamic
modulation. This paper reviews dynamic modulation as a process for breaking the time-reversal
symmetry of light and generating a synthetic gauge field, and discusses its role in topological
photonics, as well as recent developments in exploring topological photonics in higher
dimensions. These results may have potential applications in integrated optical isolators and non-
reciprocal photonic devices. The manuscript reports a significant advance and offers incremental
improvement to existing work in the references.
Since the Hamiltonian describing the system is temporally periodic, the concepts of Floquet’s
theorem can be used to illustrate the band structure. Dynamically modulated resonator lattices
also support one-way edge modes. The resulting Floquet band structure has the same gapless
edge states as that of a static quantum Hall phase. By changing the phases of dynamic
modulation, the device can be tuned to exhibit Weyl points under a breaking or P or T symmetry.
Finally, the authors note that achieving a 4D topological effect for light would not only be
possible under a dynamic modulation regime, but also would involve a broken T-symmetry,
leading to one-way edge modes propagating along 3D frequency space.The similar modulation of
the photonic band structure topology of a honeycomb lattice in an atomic vapor [Ann. Phys. 363,
114 (2015)] and edge states in dynamical superlattices [ACS Photonics 4, 2250(2017)] are well
known theoretically. The authors should make a comparison between their non-reciprocal
topology photonics and such previous PT symmetry [Laser Photonics Rev 10, 526 (2016)]; optical
bloch oscillation [Optica 4, 571 (2017)] in an atomic or atomic-like ensemble.
The author’s work of the advances in synthetic gauge fields for light through dynamic
modulation is interesting. After above improvement, I could recommend publication of the
manuscript in Royal Society Open Science.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see the attached file. (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172447)
19-Feb-2018
Dear Mr Hey
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172447 entitled
"Advances in Synthetic Gauge Fields for Light Through Dynamic Modulation" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172447
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
4
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Feb-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Qin Chen (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Report on RSOS-172447:
The authors investigated the advances in synthetic gauge fields for light through dynamic
modulation. This paper reviews dynamic modulation as a process for breaking the time-reversal
6
symmetry of light and generating a synthetic gauge field, and discusses its role in topological
photonics, as well as recent developments in exploring topological photonics in higher
dimensions. These results may have potential applications in integrated optical isolators and non-
reciprocal photonic devices. The manuscript reports a significant advance and offers incremental
improvement to existing work in the references.
Since the Hamiltonian describing the system is temporally periodic, the concepts of Floquet’s
theorem can be used to illustrate the band structure. Dynamically modulated resonator lattices
also support one-way edge modes. The resulting Floquet band structure has the same gapless
edge states as that of a static quantum Hall phase. By changing the phases of dynamic
modulation, the device can be tuned to exhibit Weyl points under a breaking or P or T symmetry.
Finally, the authors note that achieving a 4D topological effect for light would not only be
possible under a dynamic modulation regime, but also would involve a broken T-symmetry,
leading to one-way edge modes propagating along 3D frequency space.The similar modulation of
the photonic band structure topology of a honeycomb lattice in an atomic vapor [Ann. Phys. 363,
114 (2015)] and edge states in dynamical superlattices [ACS Photonics 4, 2250(2017)] are well
known theoretically. The authors should make a comparison between their non-reciprocal
topology photonics and such previous PT symmetry [Laser Photonics Rev 10, 526 (2016)]; optical
bloch oscillation [Optica 4, 571 (2017)] in an atomic or atomic-like ensemble.
The author’s work of the advances in synthetic gauge fields for light through dynamic
modulation is interesting. After above improvement, I could recommend publication of the
manuscript in Royal Society Open Science.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see the attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172447)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172447.R1)
13-Mar-2018
Dear Mr Hey,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Advances in Synthetic Gauge Fields
for Light Through Dynamic Modulation" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
7
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Advances in Synthetic Gauge Fields for Light Through Dynamic
Modulation (RSOS-172447)
In this manuscript, the authors review some recent developments on synthetic magnetic
field for photons and some specific aspects of topological photonics. My comments are
detailed below.
1. There exist various photonic setups to realize synthetic magnetic flux, for example,
arrays of coupled optical waveguides, known as photonic lattices, are a powerful
experimental platform to study modulation-assisted complex-valued tunneling and
synthetic magnetic flux, see e.g. S. Longhi, Opt. Lett. 38 (18), 3570 (2013) and S.
Longhi, Opt. Lett. 39, 5892-5895 (2014). I believe that it is important to properly
discuss this aspect.
2. Modulating coupling constants [ref 17] is not the only way to generate (effective)
complex hopping – e.g. this can also be done by periodically tilting/shaking a lattice.
The author may comment on this. Also, see C. E. Creffield and F. Sols, Phys Rev
A 90, 023636 (2014) and C. E. Creffield et al., New J. Phys. 18, 093013 (2016)
3. I would request the authors to mention the following works:
1. A. B. Khanikaev and G. Shvets, Nat. Photonics 11, 763 (2017) – an excellent
review article on 2d topological photonics.
2. S. Mukherjee et al., Nat. Commun. 8, 13918 (2017) – in the context of anoma-
lous Floquet topological insulator (Page 2, L 29-30).
3. M. Aidelsburger Nat. Phys. 11, 162-166 (2015) – first Chern-number measure-
ment in ultra-cold atoms, facilitated by a synthetic gauge field.
4. M. Hafezi et al., Nat. Phys. 7, 9 (2011) – in the context of topologically pro-
tected robust optical delay lines.
5. M. A. Bandres et al., “Topological insulator laser: Experiments” Science eaar4005,
2018 – in the context of novel optical devices (Page 8, L 19).
4. Eq. 2.3: Please define Aeff and dl.
5. Please make sure that there is no typo in Eq. 2.2.
6. Page 4, L 49-50: The authors mention “A topological invariant is a quantity that
remains constant under any kind of deformation of a system.” Personally, I feel
that this definition can be improved/generalized [considering a topological phase
transition].
7. Page 4, L 52: They mention “the first Chern number cannot be changed by small
perturbations... .” I would request them to quantify the word ‘small’.
Appendix B
Dear Alice,
We greatly appreciate you giving us a chance to revise our manuscript, “Advances in
Synthetic Gauge Fields Through Dynamic Modulation”. We are also grateful to the two reviewers of
our manuscript for their professional and in-depth comments and suggestions which are so
important for us to improve the quality of the manuscript, and to plan our future research in this
direction. We have revised our manuscript by adopting the reviewers’ suggestions and provide a
point-by-point response to their comments in bold below.
Kind regards,
Daniel Hey
School of Physics
Faculty of Engineering and Information Sciences
University of Wollongong
NSW 2522, Australia
Reviewer 1:
The similar modulation of the photonic band structure topology of a honeycomb lattice in an atomic
vapor [Ann. Phys. 363, 114 (2015)] and edge states in dynamical superlattices [ACS Photonics 4,
2250(2017)] are well known theoretically. The authors should make a comparison between their non-
reciprocal topology photonics and such previous PT symmetry [Laser Photonics Rev 10, 526 (2016)];
optical bloch oscillation [Optica 4, 571 (2017)] in an atomic or atomic-like ensemble.
We would like to thank the reviewer for providing a large breadth of papers to consider.
We have incorporated the suggested papers [Ann. Phys. 363, 114 (2015)], [ACS Photonics 4,
2250(2017)], [Optica 4, 571 (2017)]. However, we feel that a discussion on PT symmetry in a
fractional Schrödinger equation [Laser Photonics Rev 10, 526 (2016)] is outside the scope of this
paper.
Reviewer 2:
There exist various photonic setups to realize synthetic magnetic flux, for example, arrays of coupled
optical waveguides, known as photonic lattices, are a powerful experimental platform to study
modulation-assisted complex-valued tunneling and synthetic magnetic flux, see e.g. S. Longhi, Opt.
Lett. 38 (18), 3570 (2013) and S. Longhi, Opt. Lett. 39, 5892-5895 (2014). I believe that it is important
to properly discuss this aspect.
Whilst the focus of this review is dynamically modulated lattices, we agree that a
discussion on alternative photonic setups is important and have included an extra paragraph
in the Dynamic Modulation section. We have also incorporated the atomic-like ensembles as
suggested by Reviewer 1.
Modulating coupling constants [ref 17] is not the only way to generate (effective) complex hopping –
e.g. this can also be done by periodically tilting/shaking a lattice. The author may comment on this.
Also, see C. E. Creffield and F. Sols, Phys Rev A 90, 023636 (2014) and C. E. Creffield et al., New J.
Phys. 18, 093013 (2016)
We have expanded the section `Dynamic Modulation’ to include a paragraph on periodic
shaking for both cold atoms in optical lattices and photonic waveguide arrays. We also briefly
discuss recent improvements in resonant shaking to incorporate the new `split-drive’ method for
non-uniform fluxes as outlined in the second provided reference.
I would request the authors to mention the following works:
<U+F0B7> B. Khanikaev and G. Shvets, Nat. Photonics 11, 763 (2017) – an excellent review
article on 2d topological photonics.
<U+F0B7> S. Mukherjee et al., Nat. Commun. 8, 13918 (2017) – in the context of anomalous
Floquet topological insulator (Page 2, L 29-30).
<U+F0B7> M. Aidelsburger Nat. Phys. 11, 162-166 (2015) – first Chern-number measurement in
ultra-cold atoms, facilitated by a synthetic gauge field.
<U+F0B7> M. Hafezi et al., Nat. Phys. 7, 9 (2011) – in the context of topologically protected
robust optical delay lines.
<U+F0B7> M. A. Bandres et al., “Topological insulator laser: Experiments” Science eaar4005,
2018 – in the context of novel optical devices (Page 8, L 19).
We would like to thank the reviewer for this excellent list of papers, and have included the
suggested citations, as well as elaborating on the first non-zero Chern measurements via synthetic
gauge fields.
Eq. 2.3: Please define Aeff and dl.
A_eff and dl have now been updated with their definitions.
Please make sure that there is no typo in Eq. 2.2.
The missing minus sign has been corrected.
Page 4, L 49-50: The authors mention “A topological invariant is a quantity that remains constant
under any kind of deformation of a system.” Personally, I feel that this definition can be
improved/generalized [considering a topological phase transition].
We have extended the definition to include topological phase transitions.
Page 4, L 52: They mention “the first Chern number cannot be changed by small perturbations... .” I
would request them to quantify the word ‘small’.
To avoid ambiguity we have replaced the line with a more precise statement regarding
how the Chern number remains constant while the energy band gap stays open.
Society Open
