Survival and weak chaos
Sean Nee
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172181.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172181
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 April 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172181.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Steven Frank)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript presents a novel analysis of failure curves, in which "failure" includes mortality
of organisms and breakdown of machines and devices. The key point is that two different types
of deterministic chaos explain several widespread patterns of failure.
The subject is of interest to both biologists and engineers. The author presents the material as a
combination of tutorial and novel analysis, in order to provide background to the wide audience
and make the results understandable across disciplines. In my opinion, the unusual style works
well. I was familiar with many individual aspects of the author's broader synthesis. But I had
little idea how the various parts fit together in terms of the basic background or potential
pathways of synthesis. I learned a lot.
The manuscript is an excellent contribution in its current form.
I list a few things that occurred to me while reading, which the author may wish to consider.
-- The final paragraph of the abstract makes sense only after reading the full article.
-- Line 216: Hamilton 1966 may have discussed the puzzle of high infant mortality in biology.
-- Equations 6 and 7: I did not understand the meaning of 0.5 < x <= 0.5.
-- The manuscript argues that deterministic chaos may be sufficient to explain several aspects of
failure curves that were previously explained by "random" perturbations or other causes.
Pointing out that an explanation is sufficient is interesting, but leaves the reader wondering how
one might distinguish between alternative sufficient explanations.
-- Somewhere early in the manuscript, such as after the introduction, it might be useful briefly to
list some examples to motivate intuition and a sense of potential application. Many of the
examples come a long way into the manuscript.
-- In a few places, there is promise of further development of applications to be given in the
Discussion. Yet the Discussion is limited. Perhaps the Discussion might contain indications of of
how to distinguish alternative explanations and particularly interesting candidate puzzles
(observed patterns) that might be further considered in light of the insights presented in the
manuscript.
Steve Frank, Univ of California, Irvine
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172181.R0)
03-Apr-2018
Dear Professor Nee
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172181 entitled
"Survival and weak chaos" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
3
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172181
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
4
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 12-Apr-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
5
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Matjaz Perc (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript presents a novel analysis of failure curves, in which "failure" includes mortality
of organisms and breakdown of machines and devices. The key point is that two different types
of deterministic chaos explain several widespread patterns of failure.
The subject is of interest to both biologists and engineers. The author presents the material as a
combination of tutorial and novel analysis, in order to provide background to the wide audience
and make the results understandable across disciplines. In my opinion, the unusual style works
well. I was familiar with many individual aspects of the author's broader synthesis. But I had
little idea how the various parts fit together in terms of the basic background or potential
pathways of synthesis. I learned a lot.
The manuscript is an excellent contribution in its current form.
I list a few things that occurred to me while reading, which the author may wish to consider.
-- The final paragraph of the abstract makes sense only after reading the full article.
-- Line 216: Hamilton 1966 may have discussed the puzzle of high infant mortality in biology.
-- Equations 6 and 7: I did not understand the meaning of 0.5 < x <= 0.5.
6
-- The manuscript argues that deterministic chaos may be sufficient to explain several aspects of
failure curves that were previously explained by "random" perturbations or other causes.
Pointing out that an explanation is sufficient is interesting, but leaves the reader wondering how
one might distinguish between alternative sufficient explanations.
-- Somewhere early in the manuscript, such as after the introduction, it might be useful briefly to
list some examples to motivate intuition and a sense of potential application. Many of the
examples come a long way into the manuscript.
-- In a few places, there is promise of further development of applications to be given in the
Discussion. Yet the Discussion is limited. Perhaps the Discussion might contain indications of of
how to distinguish alternative explanations and particularly interesting candidate puzzles
(observed patterns) that might be further considered in light of the insights presented in the
manuscript.
Steve Frank, Univ of California, Irvine
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172181.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172181.R1)
16-Apr-2018
Dear Professor Nee,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Survival and weak chaos" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
7
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Matjaz Perc (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Matjaz Perc):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Thank you for the comprehensive revision of your manuscript, which we are happy to accept for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Appendix A
All changes discussed here are identified in the Track Changes version of the revised manuscript
which will be uploaded to Manuscript Central (I hope, I do not know what options are about to
appear on the next screens...).
A "clean" ms with accepted changes will also be uploaded.
In addition to sending the Figures, Figure Legends and References in separate files, I have left them
in place in the .doc file: they are easily deleted and make it easy to see where they go.
I will try to upload to Manuscript Central an eye-catching Cover suggestion.
The referee’s comments are reproduced here in their entirety, with my response following each.
REFEREE:This manuscript presents a novel analysis of failure curves, in which "failure" includes
mortality of organisms and breakdown of machines and devices. The key point is that two different
types of deterministic chaos explain several widespread patterns of failure.
The subject is of interest to both biologists and engineers. The author presents the material as a
combination of tutorial and novel analysis, in order to provide background to the wide audience and
make the results understandable across disciplines. In my opinion, the unusual style works well. I
was familiar with many individual aspects of the author's broader synthesis. But I had little idea how
the various parts fit together in terms of the basic background or potential pathways of synthesis. I
learned a lot.
The manuscript is an excellent contribution in its current form.
AUTHOR: Thank you.
REFEREE: I list a few things that occurred to me while reading, which the author may wish to
consider.
REFEREE:-- The final paragraph of the abstract makes sense only after reading the full article.
AUTHOR: Paragraph now deleted from Abstract and a clearer, extended version, as follows, is now in
the Introduction. This also includes clarifications to address other comments of the referee, which I
will identify in the order they arise later.
“”Ecology embraced the idea of chaos early, in the context of systems – populations – for which
there is: a) an unavoidable paucity of data and b); a substantial input of external noise into the
unfolding dynamics of the systems.
“In this paper, we are discussing the performance of units that are designed to operate in a way that
largely insulates them from, or controls, externalities, which will be given a more precise
specification in Section 3.
“The evolutionary ecology and reliability engineering of these units will enjoy the benefit of large
streams of relevant data for the study of their performance, as we will sketch in the Discussion.
“The collection of this data is accelerated by the demands of the industries associated with the
evolution of cyber-physical systems such as autonomous vehicles and Artificial Intelligences. Both
the enthusiastic public, and the military, now collect data collectively known as the “quantified self”,
using technologies known to everyone in their simplest forms as Fitbits, for example. This data is
naturally collated under the rubric “big data”. This data is particularly valuable as it is gathered on
healthy systems which are functioning as the designers originally intended, like aircraft carrying
black boxes.””
REFEREE:-- Line 216: Hamilton 1966 may have discussed the puzzle of high infant mortality in
biology.
AUTHOR: I have rewritten a couple of sentences around former line 216, which now point to the
following discusssion of this important Hamilton paper, which I put in its appropriate place in Section
4:
“”This fact has a rich understanding in terms of the evolutionary theory of senescence as described
by Hamilton [55]. That framework understands senescence in terms of the action of genes which
have fitness benfits earlier in life, but exact a cost later. Hamilton clearly stated the difficulty of
understanding infant mortality in that adaptive framework and suggested additional ideas, such as
the loss of some offspring being of benefit to survivors.
“What we will see here is that system dynamics can naturally produce a cohort of units which will
exhibit infant mortality and increased longevity of the survivors.””
REFEREE:-- Equations 6 and 7: I did not understand the meaning of 0.5 < x <= 0.5.
AUTHOR: Typos corrected, now reads 0.5 < x < 1.
REFEREE:-- The manuscript argues that deterministic chaos may be sufficient to explain several
aspects of failure curves that were previously explained by "random" perturbations or other causes.
Pointing out that an explanation is sufficient is interesting, but leaves the reader wondering how one
might distinguish between alternative sufficient explanations.
AUTHOR: I have now explicitly referred to this important issue with the follwing comments after the
introduction of the first, well-known logistic model:
“”This may simply be a result of the lack of an explicit alternative: as we will see, the logistic model
itself shows that Type II survivorship can have internal causes, and not be a manifestation of random
external shocks. The question of distinguishing such broad alternatives exists in a much more
general context, taken up in the Discussion.””
Now, for me, the core ideas of which I am aware are indeed sketched in the Discussion, the ideas
being the combination of the “physics-up” and the statistical approaches, as well as the ideas of
others about looking for dynamical transitions.
REFEREE:-- Somewhere early in the manuscript, such as after the introduction, it might be useful
briefly to list some examples to motivate intuition and a sense of potential application. Many of the
examples come a long way into the manuscript.
REFEREE:-- In a few places, there is promise of further development of applications to be given in the
Discussion. Yet the Discussion is limited. Perhaps the Discussion might contain indications of of how
to distinguish alternative explanations and particularly interesting candidate puzzles (observed
patterns) that might be further considered in light of the insights presented in the manuscript.
AUTHOR: I have now addressed both these two points raised by the referee in my responses to the
above comments. The second point, I know the referee would agree, is a question of the sort of
science one does. I am not gifted in directing other people to go the directions they would find
fruitful.
Society Open
