Unravelling the life history of Amazonian fishes through
otolith microchemistry
Theodore W. Hermann, Donald J. Stewart, Karin E. Limburg and Leandro Castello
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160206.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160206
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 March 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 May 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 May 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160206.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript by Hermann et al. describes the use of otolith chemistry in a variety of fish
species inhabiting the Amazon river to distinguish sedentary versus migratory life histories.
Despite the low sample sizes, I think this is a valuable data set worthy of publication particularly
given the paucity of information on these potentially highly migratory fishes in a very large, yet
understudied, river basin. The identification of potential movements into hypoxic ‘black water’
with otolith Mn is particularly intriguing, and represents a nice application of this marker, which
is growing in popularity and usage in the otolith chemistry field.
I have no major issues with the paper; the analyses were appropriate and interpretations of
patterns reasonable, and considered the caveats and limitations of the method sufficiently.
A couple minor suggestions for revision:
1.) The authors rightly point out that few studies of otolith chemistry have been carried out in
tropical systems. However, if the authors wish to expand their discussion, there are a few papers
from tropical rivers in the Indo-Pacific that may be usefully compared to the current results. I’m
thinking in particular about the series of papers by Dave Milton and Simon Chenery on tropical
shads and barramundi (e.g. Milton & Chenery 2001 MEPS; Milton et al. 2000 ECSS; Milton &
Chenery 2005 MEPS, Milton & Chenery 2003 CJFAs; and others), as well as papers on
barramundi in tropical Australian rivers (regulated and unregulated) from Malcolm McCulloch’s
lab (e.g. McCulloch et al. 2005 Mar Fresh Res; Walther et al. 2011 PLoS ONE). These latter two
papers also used the contrasting Sr vs Ba profiles to infer estuarine immigration, so could be
useful for verifying the utility that method. But more broadly, it would be interesting to try and
draw some conclusions about tropical fish migration patterns in this paper and how they might
compare/contrast with others, even though the literature is more sparse.
2. Are there really no existing water data on possible concentrations of Sr (for instance) in the
Amazon basin? I think there’s been a fair bit of Sr isotope analysis of major river basins to
quantify total Sr flux to the ocean, and even those may of those papers focus on Sr isotope ratios,
they usually contain measurements of total dissolved Sr. I’m thinking, for instance, of Palmer &
Edmond 1992 Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta (and there may be more recent ones). This could be
useful to establish that the Amazon freshwater endmember (or endmembers, given the plethora
of tributaries) all have Sr concentrations below that of marine.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Carlos Edwar)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
General Comments
The manuscript presents otolith microchemistry data of five Amazonian fish species. The authors
employed a low-resolution laser ablation coupled with x-ray fluorescence microscopy and
analyzed others elements than those explored in previous studies with otolith microchemistry.
The manuscript is well structured and writing, but it has two critical weaknesses:
1. The number of sampled fish by species: Arapaima sp. n =1, Plagiosciom squamossisimus
n = 1, Prochilodus nigricans n = 6, Brachyplatystoma rousseauxi n = 1, and B. filamentosum n = 1.
Besides these samples, as expected, are from restricted areas that can not be used to talk about the
life-histories of species with broad geographic distribution in these huge Ecosystem – the
Amazon basin.
2. The absence of water chemistry data to match with otolith microchemistry data. It is
noticeable that the authors explicitly recognized this problem (page 6, lines 9-11), but as was
observed by Campana (1999), cited in the manuscript, a robust approach as water chemistry data
is absent should be look across multiple specimens. However, there are no multiple specimens in
these analyses – remember the first weakness above.
These two weaknesses are critical for some inferences made in this manuscript. Actually, I like
this approach with more chemical elements than usual and I would like to see this manuscript
published. Nevertheless, some principles of scientific writing should be preserved and I believe
that is incorrect to do inferences without appropriate analysis. My suggestion is to reduce the
inferences to discuss the proposed approach (low-resolution LA with SXFM) validity. The
inferences on the fish life histories seem a bit speculative with this poor database and should be
used just as support to the approach.
Specific Comments
There are some specific and non-critical comments
Page 2(lines 51-52): There are three more papers using otolith chemistry in the Amazon: Pouilly et
al. (2014), Garcez et al. (2016) and Duponchelle et al. (2016).
Page 3 (lines 9-10): I think that something is missing in this sentence.
Page 3 (lines 43-45): I didn’t understand the sentence “Prochilodus (a fish group) are exposed to
the most varied water chemistry of Amazonian fishes”.
Page 3 (lines 52-60): see Duponchelle et al. (2016) for new insights on large catfish migratory
behavior.
Page 4 (lines 3-9). Although the importance of these information, they are barely related with the
item “life history of Amazonian fishes”.
I believe that the results, discussion and conclusion should be re-write taking into account the
general comment above. It is noticeable that the authors realized that “a comparative basin-wide
approach to fish sampling should be taken to elucidate differences among distinct population.....”
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160206)
28-Apr-2016
Dear Mr Hermann
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160206 entitled
"Unravelling the life-history of Amazonian fishes through otolith microchemistry" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160206
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 07-May-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr David Ferrier):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both reviewers thought that the manuscript was interesting and novel. They also both had
suggestions for revisions. These include the consideration of some further relevant literature, as
well as being a little more circumspect with the writing about life histories of some of these fish
given the necessarily small sample sizes.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript by Hermann et al. describes the use of otolith chemistry in a variety of fish
species inhabiting the Amazon river to distinguish sedentary versus migratory life histories.
Despite the low sample sizes, I think this is a valuable data set worthy of publication particularly
given the paucity of information on these potentially highly migratory fishes in a very large, yet
understudied, river basin. The identification of potential movements into hypoxic ‘black water’
with otolith Mn is particularly intriguing, and represents a nice application of this marker, which
is growing in popularity and usage in the otolith chemistry field.
I have no major issues with the paper; the analyses were appropriate and interpretations of
patterns reasonable, and considered the caveats and limitations of the method sufficiently.
A couple minor suggestions for revision:
1.) The authors rightly point out that few studies of otolith chemistry have been carried out in
tropical systems. However, if the authors wish to expand their discussion, there are a few papers
from tropical rivers in the Indo-Pacific that may be usefully compared to the current results. I’m
thinking in particular about the series of papers by Dave Milton and Simon Chenery on tropical
shads and barramundi (e.g. Milton & Chenery 2001 MEPS; Milton et al. 2000 ECSS; Milton &
Chenery 2005 MEPS, Milton & Chenery 2003 CJFAs; and others), as well as papers on
barramundi in tropical Australian rivers (regulated and unregulated) from Malcolm McCulloch’s
lab (e.g. McCulloch et al. 2005 Mar Fresh Res; Walther et al. 2011 PLoS ONE). These latter two
papers also used the contrasting Sr vs Ba profiles to infer estuarine immigration, so could be
useful for verifying the utility that method. But more broadly, it would be interesting to try and
draw some conclusions about tropical fish migration patterns in this paper and how they might
compare/contrast with others, even though the literature is more sparse.
2. Are there really no existing water data on possible concentrations of Sr (for instance) in the
Amazon basin? I think there’s been a fair bit of Sr isotope analysis of major river basins to
quantify total Sr flux to the ocean, and even those may of those papers focus on Sr isotope ratios,
they usually contain measurements of total dissolved Sr. I’m thinking, for instance, of Palmer &
Edmond 1992 Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta (and there may be more recent ones). This could be
useful to establish that the Amazon freshwater endmember (or endmembers, given the plethora
of tributaries) all have Sr concentrations below that of marine.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
General Comments
The manuscript presents otolith microchemistry data of five Amazonian fish species. The authors
employed a low-resolution laser ablation coupled with x-ray fluorescence microscopy and
analyzed others elements than those explored in previous studies with otolith microchemistry.
The manuscript is well structured and writing, but it has two critical weaknesses:
7
1. The number of sampled fish by species: Arapaima sp. n =1, Plagiosciom squamossisimus
n = 1, Prochilodus nigricans n = 6, Brachyplatystoma rousseauxi n = 1, and B. filamentosum n = 1.
Besides these samples, as expected, are from restricted areas that can not be used to talk about the
life-histories of species with broad geographic distribution in these huge Ecosystem – the
Amazon basin.
2. The absence of water chemistry data to match with otolith microchemistry data. It is
noticeable that the authors explicitly recognized this problem (page 6, lines 9-11), but as was
observed by Campana (1999), cited in the manuscript, a robust approach as water chemistry data
is absent should be look across multiple specimens. However, there are no multiple specimens in
these analyses – remember the first weakness above.
These two weaknesses are critical for some inferences made in this manuscript. Actually, I like
this approach with more chemical elements than usual and I would like to see this manuscript
published. Nevertheless, some principles of scientific writing should be preserved and I believe
that is incorrect to do inferences without appropriate analysis. My suggestion is to reduce the
inferences to discuss the proposed approach (low-resolution LA with SXFM) validity. The
inferences on the fish life histories seem a bit speculative with this poor database and should be
used just as support to the approach.
Specific Comments
There are some specific and non-critical comments
Page 2(lines 51-52): There are three more papers using otolith chemistry in the Amazon: Pouilly et
al. (2014), Garcez et al. (2016) and Duponchelle et al. (2016).
Page 3 (lines 9-10): I think that something is missing in this sentence.
Page 3 (lines 43-45): I didn’t understand the sentence “Prochilodus (a fish group) are exposed to
the most varied water chemistry of Amazonian fishes”.
Page 3 (lines 52-60): see Duponchelle et al. (2016) for new insights on large catfish migratory
behavior.
Page 4 (lines 3-9). Although the importance of these information, they are barely related with the
item “life history of Amazonian fishes”.
I believe that the results, discussion and conclusion should be re-write taking into account the
general comment above. It is noticeable that the authors realized that “a comparative basin-wide
approach to fish sampling should be taken to elucidate differences among distinct population.....”
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160206)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
r responses to reviewers follow their comments in red italicized text.
ociate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr David Ferrier):
ociate Editor: 1
mments to the Author:
h reviewers thought that the manuscript was interesting and novel. They also both had
gestions for revisions. These include the consideration of some further relevant literature, as
l as being a little more circumspect with the writing about life histories of some of these fish
en the necessarily small sample sizes.
iewer comments to Author:
iewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
manuscript by Hermann et al. describes the use of otolith chemistry in a variety of fish
cies inhabiting the Amazon river to distinguish sedentary versus migratory life
ories. Despite the low sample sizes, I think this is a valuable data set worthy of publication
ticularly given the paucity of information on these potentially highly migratory fishes in a
y large, yet understudied, river basin. The identification of potential movements into hypoxic
ck water’ with otolith Mn is particularly intriguing, and represents a nice application of this
rker, which is growing in popularity and usage in the otolith chemistry field.
ve no major issues with the paper; the analyses were appropriate and interpretations of
erns reasonable, and considered the caveats and limitations of the method sufficiently.
ouple minor suggestions for revision:
The authors rightly point out that few studies of otolith chemistry have been carried out in
ical systems. However, if the authors wish to expand their discussion, there are a few papers
m tropical rivers in the Indo-Pacific that may be usefully compared to the current results. I’m
king in particular about the series of papers by Dave Milton and Simon Chenery on tropical
ds and barramundi (e.g. Milton & Chenery 2001 MEPS; Milton et al. 2000 ECSS; Milton &
enery 2005 MEPS, Milton & Chenery 2003 CJFAs; and others), as well as papers on
ramundi in tropical Australian rivers (regulated and unregulated) from Malcolm McCulloch’s
(e.g. McCulloch et al. 2005 Mar Fresh Res; Walther et al. 2011 PLoS ONE). These latter
papers also used the contrasting Sr vs Ba profiles to infer estuarine immigration, so could be
ful for verifying the utility that method. But more broadly, it would be interesting to try and
w some conclusions about tropical fish migration patterns in this paper and how they might
pare/contrast with others, even though the literature is more sparse.
nk you for this extensive list of references. We found them useful and relevant to our
cussion and have included several of your recommendations (please see page 6, lines 48–64).
far as comparing life-histories, we updated the manuscript to note that B. rousseauxii differs
m many species in similar studies because it lacks a marine life-history stage (page 6, lines
64). As such, its use of the estuary is interesting since it is an otherwise entirely riverine fish.
wever, we did not extend the discussion further than this, as we felt it went beyond the scope
his paper given the limited sample size.
re there really no existing water data on possible concentrations of Sr (for instance) in the
azon basin? I think there’s been a fair bit of Sr isotope analysis of major river basins to
ntify total Sr flux to the ocean, and even those may of those papers focus on Sr isotope ratios,
y usually contain measurements of total dissolved Sr. I’m thinking, for instance, of Palmer &
mond 1992 Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta (and there may be more recent ones). This could be
ful to establish that the Amazon freshwater endmember (or endmembers, given the plethora
ributaries) all have Sr concentrations below that of marine.
s is an excellent suggestion. We have added your recommended reference along with a
rence for ocean Sr concentration (page 6, lines 49–50).
iewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
neral Comments
manuscript presents otolith microchemistry data of five Amazonian fish species. The authors
ployed a low-resolution laser ablation coupled with x-ray fluorescence microscopy and
lyzed others elements than those explored in previous studies with otolith
rochemistry. The manuscript is well structured and writing, but it has two critical
aknesses:
The number of sampled fish by species: Arapaima sp. n =1, Plagiosciom squamossisimus n
, Prochilodus nigricans n = 6, Brachyplatystoma rousseauxi n = 1, and B. filamentosum n = 1.
ides these samples, as expected, are from restricted areas that can not be used to talk about
life-histories of species with broad geographic distribution in these huge Ecosystem – the
azon basin.
agree that definitive statements cannot be made about entire species based on results from
or a few specimens. This was not the intention of our inferences, and thus we have revised
diction of much of the discussion so that it has a more cautious tone and better reflects the
that these results are for individuals and, at best, may only be characteristic of local
ulations in Amazonian sub-basins, rather than entire species. Please see our longer
cussion of these changes below.
The absence of water chemistry data to match with otolith microchemistry data. It is
iceable that the authors explicitly recognized this problem (page 6, lines 9-11), but as was
erved by Campana (1999), cited in the manuscript, a robust approach as water chemistry data
bsent should be look across multiple specimens. However, there are no multiple specimens in
se analyses – remember the first weakness above.
se comments astutely identify one of the main limitations of our study. In fact, this limitation
one of the major principles guiding our interpretations of the results. Where possible, we
r information on water chemistry parameters (e.g., page 7, lines 9–11). Although replicates
e not available for all species, inferences can still be made by comparing among species.
example, the life-history of Arapaima is relatively well-documented (at least among
azonian fishes). The otolith microchemistry of the individual used in this study was consistent
h that life-history (i.e. no lifetime changes in microchemistry aside from small, annual
illations that one would expect in an environment dominated by the flood cycle). It would not
unreasonable to infer that such otolith microchemistry patterns could be typical of a fish
ng either in one relatively stable environment or moving among chemically identical
ironments. If Plagioscion, for example, also lives a similarly sedentary life, as is generally
ught, then its otolith microchemistry patterns should be similar. However, our results
ected the behaviours of a fish with a drastically different life-history. Although this is only
individual, the fact that it differed greatly from expectations highlights the need for follow-
studies to re-evaluate the life-history of this species.
must also note that the statement regarding the absence of replicates is not entirely true,
en that we used 6 Prochilodus individuals. These were collected in a limited region within a
months of one another. The results presented in our paper were only intended to reflect the
logy of the local population, which is why we highlighted inter-population differences in this
cies as a knowledge gap in the Introduction (page 2, lines 49–55). Furthermore, these fish
e very young (4/6 were age-0), meaning that their opportunity for exposure to different
ies of water was very limited. Given the known biology of these fishes, namely that they are
wned in white water, coupled with the fact that these young individuals were caught shortly
r having moved into black water, we feel comfortable offering our interpretation of Mn as we
in the Discussion (page 6, lines 37–42).
se two weaknesses are critical for some inferences made in this manuscript. Actually, I like
approach with more chemical elements than usual and I would like to see this manuscript
lished. Nevertheless, some principles of scientific writing should be preserved and I believe
is incorrect to do inferences without appropriate analysis. My suggestion is to reduce the
rences to discuss the proposed approach (low-resolution LA with SXFM) validity. The
rences on the fish life histories seem a bit speculative with this poor database and should be
d just as support to the approach.
greatly appreciate that you see the value of this work, as such efforts are needed to conserve
se imperilled fishes. These comments clearly indicate that our diction was problematic. We
that our interpretations were not overly speculative given the limitations of the study, but
see that our inferences were not written with sufficient clarity and appear to make claims
ond the scope of this study. In response to your insightful criticisms, we have reworded much
he discussion to reflect a more conservative tone that does not exceed the boundaries
osed by this study’s limited sample size and absence of in situ water samples, without entirely
oving what we felt were valid and reasonable interpretations of the data. Some arguments
e also restructured to better reflect the reasoning behind our interpretations (e.g., our
cussion of Mn; please see page 6, lines 33–42).
ile it would be too unwieldy to list the many line-by-line changes, we offer a summary of the
nges along with our reasoning for them.
efly:
- Page 6, lines 8–23: we updated our discussion of Arapaima to highlight the fact that
these results were consistent with what one would expect based on the known biology of
this fish, whose life-history is well studied (at least among Amazonian fishes). Such
results thus serve as an example (albeit a limited one) of a “typical” sedentary
Neotropical fish, which can be compared with results from other purportedly sedentary
fishes. We also included an alternative interpretation of the Zn:Ca.
- Page 6, lines 25–34: We restructured this paragraph to show that we are making our
inferences based on the fact that the otolith chemistry of this purported sedentary fish
differs from expectations (especially when compared with the otolith microchemistry of
the Arapaima individual). Rather, these results are consistent with what one would expect
from a fish spending prolonged periods of time in multiple, chemically-distinct
environments. We have clarified that these results represent only one individual but that
such results are unexpected and beg further study.
- Page 6, lines 36–45: Some lines were rearranged to better reflect the thought process
leading to our interpretations.
- Page 6, lines 47–65, page 7, lines 1–2: The tone of this section was changed, the
arguments rearranged, and additional references were included to strengthen some
points.
- Page 7, lines 4–5: Minor word changes
- Page 7, lines 10–20: Word changes to reflect uncertainty
- Page 7, lines 22–34: Word changes to reflect uncertainty
- Page 7, lines 36–37: Word changes to reflect uncertainty
cific Comments
re are some specific and non-critical comments
e 2(lines 51-52): There are three more papers using otolith chemistry in the Amazon: Pouilly
l. (2014), Garcez et al. (2016) and Duponchelle et al. (2016).
nk you for suggesting these references. We have updated the manuscript to include them
ase see page 1, final paragraph, line 5).
e 3 (lines 9-10): I think that something is missing in this sentence.
updated this sentence for clarity. It now reads: “Mark–recapture studies are prohibitively
ensive in large or remote systems, while fish in tagging studies are often intensely harvested
ishermen or migrate distances too great to feasibly study with these methods.” (page 2, lines
12).
e 3 (lines 43-45): I didn’t understand the sentence “Prochilodus (a fish group) are exposed to
most varied water chemistry of Amazonian fishes”.
have updated this sentence to improve clarity. It now reads: “…Prochilodus are exposed to
re varied water chemistry than most other Amazonian fishes.” (page 2, lines 48–49)
e 3 (lines 52-60): see Duponchelle et al. (2016) for new insights on large catfish migratory
avior.
s section has been updated to reflect the insights provided by Duponchelle et al. (2016),
ch was accepted while the present study was under review (please see page 2, lines 60–65)
e 4 (lines 3-9). Although the importance of these information, they are barely related with the
m “life history of Amazonian fishes”.
ile it is true that the information contained therein is not directly related to life-history, we
that it provides some necessary perspective. It is presented to highlight the broader impacts
he research and to bring attention to the urgent need for additional studies like the present
. Furthermore, it does not detract from the paper, nor does it derail the paper towards
erfluous discussion. Therefore, we have left this section unchanged.
lieve that the results, discussion and conclusion should be re-write taking into account the
eral comment above. It is noticeable that the authors realized that “a comparative basin-wide
roach to fish sampling should be taken to elucidate differences among distinct population.....”
ase see our response above.
Society Open
