Multi-modal imaging and analysis in the search for iron-
based magnetoreceptors in the honeybee Apis mellifera
Jeremy A. Shaw, Alastair Boyd, Michael House, Gary Cowin and Boris Baer
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 181163.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.181163
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 July 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Final acceptance: 9 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-181163.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Nathan Putman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript seems thorough and well presented. The authors clearly worked to revise in the
light of the more extensive comments by the first referee. I think this will be a well-regarded
manuscript, hopefully moving the field closer to a mechanistic understanding of
magnetoreception.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-181163.R0)
09-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Shaw:
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript entitled "Multi-modal imaging and analysis in the
search for iron-based magnetoreceptors in the honey bee Apis mellifera" in its current form for
publication in Royal Society Open Science. The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your
manuscript are included at the foot of this letter.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we
look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof. Dr Kevin Padian (Subject Editor).
3
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript seems thorough and well presented. The authors clearly worked to revise in the
light of the more extensive comments by the first referee. I think this will be a well-regarded
manuscript, hopefully moving the field closer to a mechanistic understanding of
magnetoreception.
Society Open
