Total synthesis of rupestine G and its epimers
Abdullah Yusuf, Jiangyu Zhao, Bianlin Wang, Paruke Aibibula, Haji Akber Aisa and
Guozheng Huang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172037.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172037
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 22 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 13 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 21 February 2018
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172037.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please refer to attached review (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Alexander Grenning)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors describe a straightforward synthesis of cananodine from bromopicoline over 10
steps. The route is novel and I recommend acceptance of this manuscript after addressing the
following minor corrections:
Regarding the key step, the Suzuki coupling, were intramolecular “Heck” byproducts ever
observed? might be worth commenting on as a related transformation was used to synthesisze a
related target, as noted in your introduction.
Regarding the RCM- did the authors try any other conditions? The authors suspect that the
modest yield is a result of competing cross-metathesis. Thus lowering the concentration may be
helpful to increase this yield. Was cross-metatheis (dimerization) explicitly observed? this would
be worth commenting on in the text.
Regarding the NaBH4 reduction: …“would present one more chiral carbon” This is an awkward
way of saying the reduction was not diastereoselective. Please rephrase as such.
3
The hydrogenation step to the natural product: the text should state the diastereoselectivity of
this process, even if non-diastereoselective.
Is the email address correct? -- @yaboo.com? yahoo?
“non-asymmetrically synthetic scheme” – do you mean a racemic route? awkward phrasing
please reword as such.
“was probably resulted” poor english here. please reword.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172037)
04-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Huang,
Title: Total Synthesis of Rupestine G and its Epimers
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172037
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 27-Jan-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
4
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
James Moore
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
The overall work would be a welcome addition to the journal and the referee comments are
reasonable. Based on the nature of the referee comments, a major revision seems warranted.
Color in Schemes 1-3 is not needed and should be removed. Along similar lines, I suggest a better
placement for atom labels 10 and 11 in Figure 1 and Scheme 4.
RSC Subject Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Please refer to attached review
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The authors describe a straightforward synthesis of cananodine from bromopicoline over 10
steps. The route is novel and I recommend acceptance of this manuscript after addressing the
following minor corrections:
Regarding the key step, the Suzuki coupling, were intramolecular “Heck” byproducts ever
observed? might be worth commenting on as a related transformation was used to synthesisze a
related target, as noted in your introduction.
Regarding the RCM- did the authors try any other conditions? The authors suspect that the
modest yield is a result of competing cross-metathesis. Thus lowering the concentration may be
5
helpful to increase this yield. Was cross-metatheis (dimerization) explicitly observed? this would
be worth commenting on in the text.
Regarding the NaBH4 reduction: …“would present one more chiral carbon” This is an awkward
way of saying the reduction was not diastereoselective. Please rephrase as such.
The hydrogenation step to the natural product: the text should state the diastereoselectivity of
this process, even if non-diastereoselective.
Is the email address correct? -- @yaboo.com? yahoo?
“non-asymmetrically synthetic scheme” – do you mean a racemic route? awkward phrasing
please reword as such.
“was probably resulted” poor english here. please reword.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172037)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-172037.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
6
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
This revised manuscript is much improved with respect to English usage. Furthermore, the
reported compounds are now fully characterized and the experimental section is acceptable with
use of significant figures. All concerns raised in the initial review have been addressed and in my
opinion the manuscript should be accepted in its present form.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172037.R1)
09-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Huang:
Title: Total Synthesis of Rupestine G and its Epimers
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172037.R1
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
7
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172037.R1
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Feb-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
8
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
9
*************************************
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_8
The authors have done a good job of addressing all of the concerns raised by the previous review.
I just have one final suggested modification before final acceptance. At the end of the first
paragraph of Section 2, the authors say they chose a "racemic route". Chirality is a molecular
property and the relative proportions of stereoisomers is a property of the collection. A synthetic
route cannot be chiral, achiral, or racemic. Changing the word "racemic" to "nonstereoselective"
would be better.
**************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_9
This revised manuscript is much improved with respect to English usage. Furthermore, the
reported compounds are now fully characterized and the experimental section is acceptable with
use of significant figures. All concerns raised in the initial review have been addressed and in my
opinion the manuscript should be accepted in its present form.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172037.R1)
Dear Thomas Foley, Dear Dr Andrew Harned,
Thanks for your consideration and acceptance of manuscript.
We agree the word "nonstereoselective" is more appropriate than "racemic" to describe a
synthetic route, thus the sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2 was revised accordingly.
Other minor mistakes were also corrected and marked in blue.
Best regards
Sincerely yours
Dr Guozheng Huang
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172037.R2)
21-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Huang:
Title: Total Synthesis of Rupestine G and its Epimers
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172037.R2
10
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Laura Smith
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_10
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
endix A
VIEW
script Number: RSOS-172037
Synthesis of Rupestine G and its Epimers”
sponding Author: Huang, Guozheng
:
drew Harned
iate Editor
Society Open Science
is manuscript describes the synthesis of the guaipyridine alkaloid rupestine G and all of its
isomers in a sequence of nine steps and a respectable overall yield. The authors assert the
ines are important synthetic targets due to their scarcity from natural sources and their potential
vity based on their structural similarity to the anticancer alkaloid cananodine. Beginning with
available 3-bromopyridine, key steps of the synthesis include a decarboxylative Blaise
n, Suzuki coupling, and a RCM to form the seven-membered ring of the skeleton. The final step
synthesis is a non-selective hydrogenation that produces four stereoisomers. The
isomers were separated by preparative chiral HPLC before characterization. Absolute
urations are supported by comparison of experimental CD spectra with calculated ones. A
pancy between the optical rotation of natural rupestine G and that of the synthetic material was
ssed and explained based on low sample concentration for the natural material. NMR spectra
thetic compounds are clean enough to establish compound purity, taking into account
unds 9-13 have some enol content, with 13 existing predominantly in enol form.
veral issues must be addressed, however, before this paper is publishable.
me additional discussion of optical rotation is needed. Based on a rotation of -64 for rupestine
), the rotation of 5B should be +64 but it is reported in the experimental section as +47.
rly, the rotations of 5C and 5D should be equal in magnitude but opposite in sign. They are
ed as +17 and -35, however. Optical rotation is admittedly sensitive to trace impurities, but the
s should discuss this more.
e introduction is reasonably thorough, but not referenced completely. The Heck strategy of the
n group does not appear in the Tetrahedron Lett. paper that describes the epoxide opening
To date the only report of the Heck route is a poster abstract: Grosslight, S.; Spargo, H.;
n, P.; Vyvyan, J. R. “Synthetic studies on guaipyridine alkaloids: Rupestines B-D and G,”
cts of Papers, 253rd ACS National Meeting & Exposition, San Francisco, CA, United States,
-6, 2017, ORGN-823.
the structures of the rupestines given in the supporting information, rupestines N, O and P have
en reported before. Is there a paper in press that describes their isolation? Furthermore,
ines K and O were given the same structure in the figure. The same error exists for the
res of rupestines D and P. I suspect an additional carbon was inadvertently added to the
re of rupestine N, since it is shown with a four-carbon side chain at C8 instead of the three
side chain of all the other rupestines.
e experimental section has problems. No IR absorptions are given for any of the reported
unds. Enough IR data to establish functional groups should be provided. In many entries, only
gnificant figure is given for compound masses. This is deplorable in the age of inexpensive top-
g balances that measure to four decimal places. Moreover, the use of significant figures is
istent within many entries. One quick example: in the description of the preparation of 8, 2.1 g
SCN (2 sig figs) should be given as 22 mmol (2 sig figs), not 21.6 mmol (3 sig figs), and
ylamine should be 16 mmol (not 16.2 mmol) since the volume (2.2 mL) was only given to 2 sig
his is a problem throughout the experimental section. If only one significant figure is used for
of isolated product, yields should only have one sig fig also. Again from the preparation of 8 as
mple, isolating 0.9 g (1 sig fig) of product is an 80% yield (1 sig fig), not 85% (2 sig figs). In the
ation of 13, the Grubbs catalyst should be described in mol% as well number of mmol.
ammar is another significant problem with this paper. A native speaker of English should edit it.
of the more significant problems are given here:
icles (a, an, the, etc.) are missing throughout the manuscript. In the abstract, “intramolecular
is redundant. Ring-closing metathesis has to be intramolecular by definition, so saying “RCM”
cient. In the Introduction, the word “veritable” is not used correctly. I think the authors meant
y”, “significant”, or “important”. In the first sentence of the Results and Discussion section, the
are” is missing between “rupestines” and “usually”. At the end of that same paragraph, it should
-asymmetric (no –ally on the end). The word “four” should be used in place of 4.
the caption to Scheme 3, the term should be retrosynthetic – not retrosynthetical. Below
e 3, “Wilmer K.” should be deleted. Later in that paragraph “harboured favourably” does not
sense. One could say instead, “…product favored enol form 13 rather than the keto form 12.” In
xt sentence, remove the word “was” before “probably”. The phrase “In a word,” is used
ctly in the last sentence of that paragraph.
the legend to Scheme 4, the end should be Hexane (not –ene)/EtOH (v/v=98:2) (not 98:1).
the overall yield as 18.9% is improper use of significant figures – it should be given as 19%. In
ragraph describing the separation of the stereoisomers, the word should be “respectively” not
ctfully”. In the Conclusion section, Blaise is misspelled. Again, the word “four” should be used in
of the number 4. There is a word missing in that sentence also. It should probably read
mers and their structures were fully CHARACTERIZED by 1H, 13C …”
xperimental text” should be deleted at the beginning of the Experimental section. I am not going
il every grammatical issue from the experimental section, but an expert in English should edit it.
milarly, there are a number of errors capitalization in the references but I will not detail them all
summary, this is an important paper that should be published, but only after significant revisions
lined above. I would recommend the paper be reviewed again after changes are made.
Appendix B
Dear Prof. James Moore and Reviewers,
Thanks for your kind consideration on our manuscript. We appreciated for the precious time you spent
on reviewing our manuscript and truly indebted to kind suggestions you provided.
I am sorry we did make several mistakes, especially those mistakes in grammar in first version of the
manuscript, which are now corrected and marked in red in the revised manuscript. Please refer to the
clause-by-clause rebuttal of the comments.
We appreciate your kind consideration on our manuscript again and look forward to hearing from you
soon.
RSC Subject Editor:
The overall work would be a welcome addition to the journal and the referee comments are reasonable.
Based on the nature of the referee comments, a major revision seems warranted.
Color in Schemes 1-3 is not needed and should be removed. Along similar lines, I suggest a better
placement for atom labels 10 and 11 in Figure 1 and Scheme 4.
Our reply:
Color in Schemes 1-3 is removed. Labels 10 and 11 in Figure 1 and Scheme 4 was changed to a better
position.
Review 1:
This manuscript describes the synthesis of the guaipyridine alkaloid rupestine G and all of its
stereoisomers in a sequence of nine steps and a respectable overall yield. The authors assert the
rupestines are important synthetic targets due to their scarcity from natural sources and their potential
bioactivity based on their structural similarity to the anticancer alkaloid cananodine. Beginning with
readily available 3-bromopyridine, key steps of the synthesis include a decarboxylative Blaise reaction,
Suzuki coupling, and a RCM to form the seven-membered ring of the skeleton. The final step of the
synthesis is a non-selective hydrogenation that produces four stereoisomers. The stereoisomers were
separated by preparative chiral HPLC before characterization. Absolute configurations are supported by
comparison of experimental CD spectra with calculated ones. A discrepancy between the optical rotation
of natural rupestine G and that of the synthetic material was addressed and explained based on low
sample concentration for the natural material. NMR spectra of synthetic compounds are clean enough to
establish compound purity, taking into account compounds 9-13 have some enol content, with 13
existing predominantly in enol form.
Several issues must be addressed, however, before this paper is publishable.
Some additional discussion of optical rotation is needed. Based on a rotation of -64 for rupestine G (5A),
the rotation of 5B should be +64 but it is reported in the experimental section as +47. Similarly, the
rotations of 5C and 5D should be equal in magnitude but opposite in sign. They are reported as +17 and
-35, however. Optical rotation is admittedly sensitive to trace impurities, but the authors should discuss
this more.
Our reply:
We re-purified our samples to remove any possible impurities and solvents, and re-measured the optical
rotation carefully several times to ensure that the results are more reliable. Now the rotation of
rupestine G (5A) is -41, while the rotation of 5B is +39. After further purification, the rotation of 5C and
5D measured as +17 and -18, respectively.
The introduction is reasonably thorough, but not referenced completely. The Heck strategy of the
Vyvyan group does not appear in the Tetrahedron Lett. paper that describes the epoxide opening work.
To date the only report of the Heck route is a poster abstract: Grosslight, S.; Spargo, H.; Shelton, P.;
Vyvyan, J. R. “Synthetic studies on guaipyridine alkaloids: Rupestines B-D and G,” Abstracts of Papers,
253rd ACS National Meeting & Exposition, San Francisco, CA, United States, April 2-6, 2017, ORGN-
823.
Our reply:
The Heck strategy of the Vyvyan group reported in a conference abstract of 253rd ACS National Meeting
& Exposition, and also in the dissertation of one of his postgraduate. We now cite the two references.
In the structures of the rupestines given in the supporting information, rupestines N, O and P have not
been reported before. Is there a paper in press that describes their isolation? Furthermore, rupestines K
and O were given the same structure in the figure. The same error exists for the structures of rupestines
D and P. I suspect an additional carbon was inadvertently added to the structure of rupestine N, since it
is shown with a four-carbon side chain at C8 instead of the three carbon side chain of all the other
rupestines.
Our reply:
Rupestine N, O and P have been isolated by our group in 2012 and reported in a doctoral dissertation
(Xinjiang Technical Institute of Physics and Chemistry, CAS), we make it as a citation in our paper that
time. After carefully examination, we fixed the structural errors mentioned above.
The experimental section has problems. No IR absorptions are given for any of the reported compounds.
Enough IR data to establish functional groups should be provided. In many entries, only one significant
figure is given for compound masses. This is deplorable in the age of inexpensive toploading balances
that measure to four decimal places.
Our reply:
IR absorptions are measured and provided in the revised manuscirpt now.
Moreover, the use of significant figures is inconsistent within many entries. One quick example: in the
description of the preparation of 8, 2.1 g of TMSCN (2 sig figs) should be given as 22 mmol (2 sig figs),
not 21.6 mmol (3 sig figs), and trimethylamine should be 16 mmol (not 16.2 mmol) since the volume
(2.2 mL) was only given to 2 sig figs. This is a problem throughout the experimental section. If only one
significant figure is used for mass of isolated product, yields should only have one sig fig also. Again
from the preparation of 8 as an example, isolating 0.9 g (1 sig fig) of product is an 80% yield (1 sig fig),
not 85% (2 sig figs). In the preparation of 13, the Grubbs catalyst should be described in mol% as well
number of mmol.
Our reply:
Significant figures are recalculated carefully. We now used three significant figures throughout the
manuscript. Grubbs catalyst was described as suggested.
Grammar is another significant problem with this paper. A native speaker of English should edit it.
Our reply:
We apologize for the grammar mistakes we made. A native speaker checked the manuscript and
Some of the more significant problems are given here:
Articles (a, an, the, etc.) are missing throughout the manuscript. In the abstract, “intramolecular RCM”
is redundant. Ring-closing metathesis has to be intramolecular by definition, so saying “RCM” is
sufficient. In the Introduction, the word “veritable” is not used correctly. I think the authors meant
“worthy”, “significant”, or “important”.
Our reply:
Necessary articles (a, an, the, etc.) are added now. Intramolecular RCM was really redundant and is
revised. “Veritable” was changed to worthy.
In the first sentence of the Results and Discussion section, the word “are” is missing between
“rupestines” and “usually”. At the end of that same paragraph, it should be non-asymmetric (no –ally on
the end). The word “four” should be used in place of 4. In the caption to Scheme 3, the term should be
retrosynthetic – not retrosynthetical. Below Scheme 3, “Wilmer K.” should be deleted. Later in that
paragraph “harboured favourably” does not make sense. One could say instead, “…product favored enol
form 13 rather than the keto form 12.” In the next sentence, remove the word “was” before “probably”.
The phrase “In a word,” is used incorrectly in the last sentence of that paragraph.
Our reply:
All the mistakes are corrected as suggested by the reviewer.
In the legend to Scheme 4, the end should be Hexane (not –ene)/EtOH (v/v=98:2) (not 98:1). Giving
the overall yield as 18.9% is improper use of significant figures – it should be given as 19%. In the
paragraph describing the separation of the stereoisomers, the word should be “respectively” not
“respectfully”. In the Conclusion section, Blaise is misspelled. Again, the word “four” should be used in
place of the number 4. There is a word missing in that sentence also. It should probably read
“…isomers and their structures were fully CHARACTERIZED by 1H, 13C …”
Our reply:
All the mistakes are corrected as suggested by the reviewer.
“Experimental text” should be deleted at the beginning of the Experimental section. I am not going to
detail every grammatical issue from the experimental section, but an expert in English should edit it.
Similarly, there are a number of errors capitalization in the references but I will not detail them all here.
Our reply:
“Experimental text” was deleted at the beginning of the Experimental section. This part was carefully
checked, and errors of capitalization in the references were corrected.
In summary, this is an important paper that should be published, but only after significant revisions
as outlined above. I would recommend the paper be reviewed again after changes are made.
Our reply:
Once again we thank for your kind comments on our manuscript. It it our lucky to have you review our
paper again.
Reviewer 2
The authors describe a straightforward synthesis of cananodine from bromopicoline over 10 steps. The
route is novel and I recommend acceptance of this manuscript after addressing the following minor
corrections:
Regarding the key step, the Suzuki coupling, were intramolecular “Heck” byproducts ever observed?
might be worth commenting on as a related transformation was used to synthesisze a related target, as
noted in your introduction.
Our reply:
Checked our experimental records and repeated the reaction again, we have to concluded that we did
not isolate any minor byproduct in this reaction. Sorry we can not provided more information regarding
this issue.
Regarding the RCM- did the authors try any other conditions? The authors suspect that the modest yield
is a result of competing cross-metathesis. Thus lowering the concentration may be helpful to increase
this yield. Was cross-metatheis (dimerization) explicitly observed? this would be worth commenting on
in the text.
Our reply:
We tried several conditions in this step, lower concentration of 13 were helpful for a higher yield. After
evaluation of conditions, we find the appropriate concentration of 13 was 0.12M, and obtained the
highest yield as 53.3%. Unfortunately, we did not isolated any dimerization products.
Regarding the NaBH4 reduction: …“would present one more chiral carbon” This is an awkward way of
saying the reduction was not diastereoselective. Please rephrase as such.
Our reply:
Although NaBH4 reduction was not diastereoselective, the resulted tertiary alcohol would be dehydrated
to give the diene, which was then reduced to give non-chiral carbon. Therefore, we don’t like to
emphasis the stereoselectivity.
The hydrogenation step to the natural product: the text should state the diastereoselectivity of this
process, even if non-diastereoselective.
Our reply:
As mentioned in the next paragraph, the hydrogenation give two diastereoisomers (31.0 mg and 10.6
mg), i.e. 74.5%/25.5% of the two pairs of isomers.
Is the email address correct? -- @yaboo.com? yahoo?
Our reply:
The correct address should be :guozheng.huang@yahoo.com, sorry for the typo.
“non-asymmetrically synthetic scheme” – do you mean a racemic route? awkward phrasing please
reword as such.
Our reply:
We changed to a racemic route
“was probably resulted” poor english here. please reword.
Our reply:
We changed to “The moderate but still acceptable yield of RCM reaction probably was the result of an
undesired intermolecular reaction”
Society Open
