Life in the cystic fibrosis upper respiratory tract influences
competitive ability of the opportunistic pathogen
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Jeffrey J. Bara, Zachary Matson and Susanna K. Remold
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180623.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180623
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 17 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180623.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ville-Petri Friman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
label_version_2
RSOS-180623
Life in the Cystic Fibrosis Upper Respiratory Tract Influences Competitive Ability of the
Opportunistic Pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Summary:
Authors set to compare bacteriocin-mediated killing by competing Pseudomonas strains and
explaining this with the source of the isolation of the strains (environment vs CF lung) and
presence of certain bacteriocin genes. Manuscript is well-written and analyses are appropriate.
However, there are couple of things that could be clarified and some potential major limitations
that has not been considered (phage-mediated or contact dependent killing).
Major concerns:
(i) Pyocin inhibition assay
Bacteriophages also induced by mitomicin and clinical P. aeruginosa strains often contain
lysogenic phages. Just wondering if authors confirmed if the inhibition on bacterial lawns was
cause by bacteriocins or bacteriophages? Technically, this analysis is not able to differentiate
between the two potential modes of antagonism (chloroforming does not kill phages) and it has
been shown that lysogenic bacteriophages are used in competition between different
Pseudomonas strains.
One way to tackle this would be to measure pyocin formation by strains and correlate this with
the magnitude of inhibition. High killing without corresponding increase in pyocin production
should be indicative of non-pyocin mediated killing and the presence of phages could be then
confirmed for these strains. Phage-mediated killing of environmental Pa isolates by CF isolates
could also explain the discrepancy between the supernatant and streaking assays.
I completely understand that performing such experiments is time consuming and big ask for the
number of strains you have included to your analysis. Hence, in minimum, possibility of phage-
mediated killing should be discussed with relevant citations to recently published phage-CF
papers (Harrison et al 2015; Brockhurst & Winstanley et al. CF-phage papers).
I’m bit confused what authors mean by competition in their analyses. This has to be explicitly
defined. For example, do you mean the effect of resource competition+inhibition or joint
expression of bacteriocins by both strains (compared to one-way directions used in supernatant
assays). Personally, I might just use term ‘inhibition’ but divide this to unidirectional
(supernatant) and bidirectional (streak assays) effects. It would also be good to be specific in the
methods that in streak assays the measurement environment was included as ‘common garden’
design. Moreover, streak assays do not exclude the possibility of contact-dependent or secretion
system-mediated killing. These possibilities should be at least briefly discussed.
Authors could justify the selection of temperature manipulations bit better and make this part of
their hypotheses. E.g. you probably expected that environmental isolates win at 25°C and CF
isolates at 37°C (closer to their native °C environments). Also, it is not that clear to me why
3
environmental isolates should win CF isolates? You could refine hypotheses throughout and
justify measurement temperatures in the introduction (now this info is given only in the
discussion).
Minor issues:
Figure 1, 4 and 5: I would add 25°C and 37° to the panels directly to make it explicit that it is same
data measured only at different temperatures.
Figure 2-3: I would use darker shade for environmental isolates to increase contrast between
strain source treatment.
l141: add number of cells per inoculant
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180623.R0)
25-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Bara,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Life in the Cystic Fibrosis Upper Respiratory Tract
Influences Competitive Ability of the Opportunistic Pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa") have
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 18-Jul-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
4
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180623
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
5
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr John Dalton (Associate Editor) and Prof. Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr John Dalton):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The reviewer provide several comments that should improve the paper and also has raised an
important technical question regarding the ability to differentiate inhibition on bacterial lawns by
bacteriocins or bacteriophages
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_version_3
RSOS-180623
Life in the Cystic Fibrosis Upper Respiratory Tract Influences Competitive Ability of the
Opportunistic Pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Summary:
Authors set to compare bacteriocin-mediated killing by competing Pseudomonas strains and
explaining this with the source of the isolation of the strains (environment vs CF lung) and
presence of certain bacteriocin genes. Manuscript is well-written and analyses are appropriate.
However, there are couple of things that could be clarified and some potential major limitations
that has not been considered (phage-mediated or contact dependent killing).
Major concerns:
(i) Pyocin inhibition assay
Bacteriophages also induced by mitomicin and clinical P. aeruginosa strains often contain
lysogenic phages. Just wondering if authors confirmed if the inhibition on bacterial lawns was
cause by bacteriocins or bacteriophages? Technically, this analysis is not able to differentiate
between the two potential modes of antagonism (chloroforming does not kill phages) and it has
6
been shown that lysogenic bacteriophages are used in competition between different
Pseudomonas strains.
One way to tackle this would be to measure pyocin formation by strains and correlate this with
the magnitude of inhibition. High killing without corresponding increase in pyocin production
should be indicative of non-pyocin mediated killing and the presence of phages could be then
confirmed for these strains. Phage-mediated killing of environmental Pa isolates by CF isolates
could also explain the discrepancy between the supernatant and streaking assays.
I completely understand that performing such experiments is time consuming and big ask for the
number of strains you have included to your analysis. Hence, in minimum, possibility of phage-
mediated killing should be discussed with relevant citations to recently published phage-CF
papers (Harrison et al 2015; Brockhurst & Winstanley et al. CF-phage papers).
I’m bit confused what authors mean by competition in their analyses. This has to be explicitly
defined. For example, do you mean the effect of resource competition+inhibition or joint
expression of bacteriocins by both strains (compared to one-way directions used in supernatant
assays). Personally, I might just use term ‘inhibition’ but divide this to unidirectional
(supernatant) and bidirectional (streak assays) effects. It would also be good to be specific in the
methods that in streak assays the measurement environment was included as ‘common garden’
design. Moreover, streak assays do not exclude the possibility of contact-dependent or secretion
system-mediated killing. These possibilities should be at least briefly discussed.
Authors could justify the selection of temperature manipulations bit better and make this part of
their hypotheses. E.g. you probably expected that environmental isolates win at 25°C and CF
isolates at 37°C (closer to their native °C environments). Also, it is not that clear to me why
environmental isolates should win CF isolates? You could refine hypotheses throughout and
justify measurement temperatures in the introduction (now this info is given only in the
discussion).
Minor issues:
Figure 1, 4 and 5: I would add 25°C and 37° to the panels directly to make it explicit that it is same
data measured only at different temperatures.
Figure 2-3: I would use darker shade for environmental isolates to increase contrast between
strain source treatment.
l141: add number of cells per inoculant
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180623.R0)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180623.R1)
17-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Bara,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Life in the Cystic Fibrosis Upper
Respiratory Tract Influences Competitive Ability of the Opportunistic Pathogen Pseudomonas
aeruginosa" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr John Dalton (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Dr. Dalton,
We thank you for handling our manuscript # RSOS-180623 (Bara et al. “Life
in the Cystic Fibrosis Upper Respiratory Tract Influences Competitive Ability
of the Opportunistic Pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa”). Our reviewer
provided many constructive comments that have helped us strengthen and
clarify the manuscript. We have responded to the reviewer comments as
detailed below. With these changes, we believe the quality of the manuscript
is now much improved and acceptable for publication in Royal Society Open
Science. We thank the reviewer for their constructive comments Our line-by-
line responses follow.
Sincerely,
Jeffrey Bara (corresponding author)
Reviewer 1:
Comments:
Authors set to compare bacteriocin-mediated killing by competing
Pseudomonas strains and explaining this with the source of the isolation of
the strains (environment vs CF lung) and presence of certain bacteriocin
genes. Manuscript is well-written and analyses are appropriate.
Thank you.
However, there are couple of things that could be clarified and some potential
major limitations that has not been considered (phage-mediated or contact
dependent killing).
Major concerns:
(i) Pyocin inhibition assay
Bacteriophages also induced by mitomicin and clinical P. aeruginosa strains
often contain lysogenic phages. Just wondering if authors confirmed if the
inhibition on bacterial lawns was cause by bacteriocins or bacteriophages?
Technically, this analysis is not able to differentiate between the two potential
modes of antagonism (chloroforming does not kill phages) and it has been
shown that lysogenic bacteriophages are used in competition between
different Pseudomonas strains.
One way to tackle this would be to measure pyocin formation by strains and
correlate this with the magnitude of inhibition. High killing without
corresponding increase in pyocin production should be indicative of non-
pyocin mediated killing and the presence of phages could be then confirmed
for these strains. Phage-mediated killing of environmental Pa isolates by CF
isolates could also explain the discrepancy between the supernatant and
streaking assays.
I completely understand that performing such experiments is time consuming
and big ask for the number of strains you have included to your analysis.
Hence, in minimum, possibility of phage-mediated killing should be discussed
with relevant citations to recently published phage-CF papers (Harrison et al
2015; Brockhurst & Winstanley et al. CF-phage papers).
Response: The reviewer raises an important issue here. We believe however,
that multiple lines of evidence point to pyocins as the most likely causal
agents of the inhibition shown. First, the pattern of growth inhibition that we
observed in our study (show in Supplemental Figure 1) is identical those
observed in other recent manuscripts (Ghoul et al. 2015, France, 2015, Bakkal
2010) and is thought to be attributable to the production bacteriocins based on
other studies that have linked these phenotypes to particular pyocin types
(Fyfe et al. 1984). These are now referenced in the text (lines 450).
Also, our study is unique from other recent pyocin studies due to our inclusion
of PAO1 and PAO1 prtRS162A as positive and negative controls. On lines 443-
445 in the manuscript, we report that we found that PAO1 prtRS162A was
approximately 2.5-fold more susceptible to growth inhibition relative to
PAO1; we believe this evidence suggests pyocins are responsible for the
observed growth inhibition since we would expect a similar susceptibility rate
between these two isolates if bacteriophages were responsible for growth
inhibition. However, we acknowledge that we cannot completely rule out the
potential for bacteriophage to be a contributing factor. As noted by the
reviewer however, alternative explanations are time consuming and difficult
to test, especially given the large number of pyocin genes carried by many of
our isolates, and the number of isolates included in the study. We are
therefore careful throughout the text where reporting results to focus on
inhibition as a phenotype, rather than pyocin activity. To emphasize the
caution that should be taken in interpretation of this inhibition, we have added
they following text to the discussion on lines 449-457 to acknowledge the
potential for some of our observed inhibition to be from non-pyocin sources.
“…Given that our inhibition results were identical to previous pyocin
studies [25,26,34,45], this result also provides additional evidence to suggest
that pyocins were responsible for the growth inhibition that we observed in
our study (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). However, our
experimental design did not allow us to exclude bacteriophages as an
alternative factor resulting in growth inhibition. Given that temperate phages
are induced by exposure to mitomycin C [31] and lytic activity by
bacteriophage can significantly influence P. aeruginosa population dynamics
[48] future studies should investigate the contribution of bacteriophage lysis to
competitive dynamics.”
(ii) I’m bit confused what authors mean by competition in their analyses. This
has to be explicitly defined. For example, do you mean the effect of resource
competition+inhibition or joint expression of bacteriocins by both strains
(compared to one-way directions used in supernatant assays). Personally, I
might just use term ‘inhibition’ but divide this to unidirectional (supernatant)
and bidirectional (streak assays) effects. It would also be good to be specific
in the methods that in streak assays the measurement environment was
included as ‘common garden’ design. Moreover, streak assays do not exclude
the possibility of contact-dependent or secretion system-mediated killings.
These possibilities should be at least briefly discussed.
Response: Indeed, a clear definition of the difference between the inhibition
assay, presumably measuring the effects of pyocins only, and the competition
assays measuring the composite effects of all mechanisms must be clear to
readers! We have therefore added the following clarification in the abstract on
lines 33-36.
“We determined bacteriocin gene content in a diverse collection of
environmental and CF isolates and measured bacteriocin-mediated inhibition,
resistance, and the outcome of competition in a shared environment between
all possible pairs of these isolates at 25 °C and 37 °C.”
We have also added the following paragraph to the introduction (lines 95-
102):
“It is important to note that pyocin production is a trait contributing to the
outcome of interference competition, which is only one of many possible
contributors to the ultimate outcome of competitive interactions. Additional
factors may influence interference competition, such as contact-dependent or
secretion system-mediated killing, and traits associated with resource use
competition may also play a role. Therefore, it is important to consider the
relationship between pyocin phenotype and competition affected by the full
suite of traits at play in a common environment (herein called “overall
competition”), in evaluating pyocins’ ultimate effect on fitness.”
We have also added similar clarifying text to the methods and results (e.g.
lines 209-211; 343-346). We have also modified the discussion to mention the
possibility of contact-dependent or secretion system-mediated killing as
alternative reasons for why the outcome of pyocin inhibition did not more
accurately reflect the outcome of competitive interactions
Lines 524-526 now read:
“This suggests that other factors, such as differences in resource competition
ability, contact-dependent killing, or secretion system-mediated killing may
have influenced the outcome of these interactions.”
And have added the following clarifying text to the conclusion on lines 549-
554.
“Moreover, although we found that overall, the likelihood that a pair of
isolates engaging in pyocin mediated inhibition significantly predicted the
outcome of competitive interactions among those isolates when interacting in
a shared environment, our data did not support the hypothesis that CF isolates
were competitively inferior to environmental isolates when other mechanisms
of competition beyond pyocin mediated inhibition were at play.”
Because, as the reviewer points out, the competition assay is a bidirectional
interaction between two isolates we have removed the term “competing
isolate” from this manuscript in all instances in which it was potentially
misleading. We have also edited the abstract on lines 29-33, to clarify that we
are investigating inhibition and the extent to which inhibition influences the
outcome of competitive interactions.
(iii) Authors could justify the selection of temperature manipulations bit better
and make this part of their hypotheses. E.g. you probably expected that
environmental isolates win at 25°C and CF isolates at 37°C (closer to their
native °C environments). Also, it is not that clear to me why environmental
isolates should win CF isolates? You could refine hypotheses throughout and
justify measurement temperatures in the introduction (now this info is given
only in the discussion).
Response: We agree that these related two points are key to interpretation of
the comparison of results from the experiments at the two temperatures.
Regarding the choice of temperatures used in this study, we chose 37 °C since
it the temperature of the CF lung, and 25 °C which admittedly is an arbitrary
but commonly used temperature for environmental bacteria. To explain our
reasoning for these two temperatures more clearly, we have added the
following text to the introduction on lines 110-128:
“Additionally, because the outcome of assays that assess pyocin-inhibition
and overall competitive outcomes could be temperature dependent, we
performed our experiments at the CF isolates “home environment”
temperature, 37 °C (the temperature in the human lung), and at 25 °C.
Although environmental isolates experience a range of temperatures, 25°C is
within the “home environment” range experienced by most household
environmental isolates, and outside that of CF isolate’s.”
Regarding expected outcomes of interactions occurring at these two
temperatures, there are two possibilities that are not mutually exclusive. These
are now described in the introduction as follows:
“A priori, it could be expected that the outcome of interactions at the two
temperatures might differ because these isolates are unlikely to experience
both temperatures on a regular basis, and the outcome of evolution in
homogeneous environments is often specialization [27, 28]. Such
specialization might result in each type of isolate performing best at its native
temperature. However, because previous studies have found that
environmental isolates were able to inhibit CF isolates at 37°C, perhaps
because adaptation to the CF lung resulted in a significant reduction of pyocin
production, it is also possible that environmental isolates can outperform CF
isolates regardless of temperature.”
The following text in the results now addresses these alternative predictions
(lines 288-297):
“We conducted bidirectional pyocin inhibition assays at both 25 °C and 37 °C
to assess whether these results were temperature dependent. Inhibition patters
were qualitatively consistent across temperatures (25 °C and 37 °C, chosen to
reflect temperatures frequently experienced by environmental and CF isolates
respectively), indicating no specialization on home temperatures, but rather
overall superior inhibition by environmental isolates. Overall, environmental
isolates inhibited other isolates significantly more frequently than CF isolates
(Producer source main effect, 25 °C: p = 0.04, 37 °C: p = 0.03, table S3;
figure 1), but there was also significant variability among outcomes
attributable to particular producer and indicator isolate pairings (Producer
isolate (Producer Source) <U+F0B4> Indicator isolate (Indicator source), p<0.001).”
and lines 532-539:
“Furthermore, we found no evidence that overall competitive ability depended
on either adaptation to home temperature conditions or on overall differences
between environmental or CF isolates. Rather, in our assays we found no
significant differences in the outcome of competition between environmental
and CF isolates at either temperature, indicating that differences affecting
other components of competitive ability between environmental and CF
isolates are not specific to the habitats they occupy.”
Minor issues:
Figure 1, 4 and 5: I would add 25°C and 37° to the panels directly to make it
explicit that it is same data measured only at different temperatures.
Response: We have added 25°C and 37°C to figures 1, 4, & 5.
Figure 2-3: I would use darker shade for environmental isolates to increase
contrast between strain source treatment.
Response: We have darkened the shading for the environmental isolates to
increase the contrast between the two groups.
l141: add number of cells per inoculant
Response: We did not quantify the number of cells per inoculant. There likely
was some variability among the strains in the number of cells transferred,
however we believe that this variation was unlikely to have affected our
results in any significant way as all isolates achieved stationary phase growth
after 24 hours.
Society Open
