NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic activity
as the counter electrode of dye-sensitized solar cells
Qiongzhe Yu, Yashuai Pang and Qiwei Jiang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180186.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180186
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 February 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180186.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript “NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic activity as the counter
electrode of dye-sensitized solar cells” (Manuscript ID: RSOS-180186) shows an easy
hydrothermal method to compose the novel NiS submicron cubes single crystal grains for the
first time. The NiS submicron cubes show excellent electrocatalytic activity and presented
superior photovoltaic performance when it is used as electrocatalytic material of counter
electrode for dye-sensitized solar cells. The low cost NiS submicron cubes grains show efficient
electrocatalytic ability to triiodide reduction and good electron conductivity, and the NiS
submicron cubes could be a kind of efficient electrocatalytic material with special cubic
morphology as alternatives to the traditional Pt in DSSCs. All the datas in the manuscript
(including the SEM, the XRD and the electrochemical characterizations) about the NiS submicron
cubes are well explained with convincing results. Therefore, I recommend the publication of the
manuscript after minor revision listed below:
Page 2 line 34: "electron conductivity" instead of "electric conduction".
Page 2 line 35: "electron " instead of "electrical"
Page 5 line 28: Replace "EIS" with "the EIS".
Page 5 line 30: Replace "cubes" with "cubes electrode".
Page 5 line 31: Replace "is" with "was".
Page 5 line 52: Replace "Tafel polarization curves" with "the Tafel curves ".
Page 5 line 56: Eliminate “and NiS submicron cubes-400 electrode”
Page 5 line 57: Replace "cubes-400" with "cubes ", the meaning would be more be logical and
would be more clear.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript needs a major revision and further review. The comments are given as below.
The experiment results should be exhibited in the abstract part.
The limitation and novelty of this investigation has to be clarified in more detail.
Authors should include the following references in the introduction part for more readable,
relevant to different methods used to synthesize various functional inorganic nanostructures and
its property-applications. J. Materials Chem. A 2017, 5, 21688-21698; Scripta Materialia 2008, 58,
1010-1013; J. Applied Polymer Sci. 2007, 104, 2743-2750; J. Nanosci. and Nanotech. 2007, 7, 3117-
3125; Bulletin of the Korean Chem. Soc. 2007, 28, 1985-1992; Appl. Catal. A: General 2015, 489, 1-
16; J. Polymer Sci. Part A: Polymer Chem. 2006, 44, 3355-3364; J. Nanosci. and Nanotech. 2011, 11,
3692-3695; Macromol. Research 2011, 19, 66-71; Materials Research Express 2014, 1, 015012;
Colloid and Surf. A 2008, 320, 49-56.
The source (company name, city and country) of all chemicals/materials should be given in the
experimental section.
In the preparation process of NiS, on what basis, the amount of reagents, pyrolysis time and
temperatures were determined?
The growth mechanism for the formation of NiS micro-cubes should be explained in more detail
based on the chemistry concept.
Please compare and discuss the differences between diffractions in Figure 2.
More characterization data is needed for this work such as SAED, EDS with elemental mapping
images, FTIR, and XPS data.
Please describe the quantum yield of synthesized materials.
This work needs more characterization such as SAED, EDS spectra with elemental mapping
images and XRD. Electrical characterization (I-V characteristics) is also need to be given.
Authors should compare and contrast results in more details on the photovoltaic properties of
these materials with reported work in the literature.
How about the recyclability of the designed system for solar cells?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180186.R0)
25-May-2018
Dear Professor Jiang:
Title: NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic activity as the counter electrode of dye-
sensitized solar cells
4
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180186
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 17-Jun-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
5
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180186
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
6
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The manuscript “NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic activity as the counter
electrode of dye-sensitized solar cells” (Manuscript ID: RSOS-180186) shows an easy
hydrothermal method to compose the novel NiS submicron cubes single crystal grains for the
first time. The NiS submicron cubes show excellent electrocatalytic activity and presented
superior photovoltaic performance when it is used as electrocatalytic material of counter
electrode for dye-sensitized solar cells. The low cost NiS submicron cubes grains show efficient
electrocatalytic ability to triiodide reduction and good electron conductivity, and the NiS
submicron cubes could be a kind of efficient electrocatalytic material with special cubic
morphology as alternatives to the traditional Pt in DSSCs. All the datas in the manuscript
(including the SEM, the XRD and the electrochemical characterizations) about the NiS submicron
cubes are well explained with convincing results. Therefore, I recommend the publication of the
manuscript after minor revision listed below:
Page 2 line 34: "electron conductivity" instead of "electric conduction".
Page 2 line 35: "electron " instead of "electrical"
Page 5 line 28: Replace "EIS" with "the EIS".
Page 5 line 30: Replace "cubes" with "cubes electrode".
Page 5 line 31: Replace "is" with "was".
Page 5 line 52: Replace "Tafel polarization curves" with "the Tafel curves ".
Page 5 line 56: Eliminate “and NiS submicron cubes-400 electrode”
Page 5 line 57: Replace "cubes-400" with "cubes ", the meaning would be more be logical and
would be more clear.
7
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This manuscript needs a major revision and further review. The comments are given as below.
The experiment results should be exhibited in the abstract part.
The limitation and novelty of this investigation has to be clarified in more detail.
Authors should include the following references in the introduction part for more readable,
relevant to different methods used to synthesize various functional inorganic nanostructures and
its property-applications. J. Materials Chem. A 2017, 5, 21688-21698; Scripta Materialia 2008, 58,
1010-1013; J. Applied Polymer Sci. 2007, 104, 2743-2750; J. Nanosci. and Nanotech. 2007, 7, 3117-
3125; Bulletin of the Korean Chem. Soc. 2007, 28, 1985-1992; Appl. Catal. A: General 2015, 489, 1-
16; J. Polymer Sci. Part A: Polymer Chem. 2006, 44, 3355-3364; J. Nanosci. and Nanotech. 2011, 11,
3692-3695; Macromol. Research 2011, 19, 66-71; Materials Research Express 2014, 1, 015012;
Colloid and Surf. A 2008, 320, 49-56.
The source (company name, city and country) of all chemicals/materials should be given in the
experimental section.
In the preparation process of NiS, on what basis, the amount of reagents, pyrolysis time and
temperatures were determined?
The growth mechanism for the formation of NiS micro-cubes should be explained in more detail
based on the chemistry concept.
Please compare and discuss the differences between diffractions in Figure 2.
More characterization data is needed for this work such as SAED, EDS with elemental mapping
images, FTIR, and XPS data.
Please describe the quantum yield of synthesized materials.
This work needs more characterization such as SAED, EDS spectra with elemental mapping
images and XRD. Electrical characterization (I-V characteristics) is also need to be given.
Authors should compare and contrast results in more details on the photovoltaic properties of
these materials with reported work in the literature.
How about the recyclability of the designed system for solar cells?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180186.R0)
See Appendix A.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180186.R1)
11-Jul-2018
Dear Professor Jiang:
Title: NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic activity as the counter electrode of dye-
sensitized solar cells
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180186.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Response to the referees
Dear Editor,
<U+F0B7> Manuscript title: NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic
activity as the counter electrode of dye-sensitized solar cells
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180186
Thank you very much for your letter. We appreciate the comments of the
Reviewers and have accordingly done careful revisions and replies. All
changes and modifications are highlighted with yellow background in the
revised manuscript.
<U+F0B7> List of responses to the comments of referees
<U+F0B7> Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
The manuscript “NiS submicron cubes with efficient electrocatalytic activity
as the counter electrode of dye-sensitized solar cells” (Manuscript ID:
label_version_2
RSOS-180186) shows an easy hydrothermal method to compose the novel NiS
submicron cubes single crystal grains for the first time. The NiS submicron
cubes show excellent electrocatalytic activity and presented superior
photovoltaic performance when it is used as electrocatalytic material of
counter electrode for dye-sensitized solar cells. The low cost NiS submicron
cubes grains show efficient electrocatalytic ability to triiodide reduction and
good electron conductivity, and the NiS submicron cubes could be a kind of
efficient electrocatalytic material with special cubic morphology as
alternatives to the traditional Pt in DSSCs. All the datas in the manuscript
(including the SEM, the XRD and the electrochemical characterizations) about
the NiS submicron cubes are well explained with convincing results. Therefore,
I recommend the publication of the manuscript after minor revision listed
below:
1. Page 2 line 34: "electron conductivity" instead of "electric conduction".
2. Page 2 line 35: "electron" instead of "electrical"
3. Page 5 line 28: Replace "EIS" with "the EIS".
4. Page 5 line 30: Replace "cubes" with "cubes electrode".
5. Page 5 line 31: Replace "is" with "was".
6. Page 5 line 52: Replace "Tafel polarization curves" with "the Tafel curves ".
7. Page 5 line 56: Eliminate “and NiS submicron cubes-400 electrode”
8. Page 5 line 57: Replace "cubes-400" with "cubes ", the meaning would be
more be logical and would be more clear.
<U+F0B7> Response:
We do appreciate the reviewer’s comments, recommendation and the kind suggestions.
1. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “As one of the
most important part of DSSC, the CE was used to transmit electrons and promote the
regeneration of I- from I3-, this essential function need the CE possessing excellent
electron conductivity and outstanding electrocatalytic activity at the same time.
2. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “As one of the
most important part of DSSC, the CE was used to transmit electrons and promote the
regeneration of I- from I3-, this essential function need the CE possessing excellent
electron conductivity and outstanding electrocatalytic activity at the same time”.
3. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as:“The EIS of
different electrodes were shown in Fig. 4 and the parameters from the EIS were
summarized in Table 1”.
4. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “The RCT of the
NiS submicron cubes electrode is 5.06 O, which means that the NiS submicron cubes
electrode provide a more excellent electrocatalytic activity”.
5. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “In the case of
the NiS submicron cubes-400 electrode, the RCT was further reduced to 2.99 O”.
6. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “To further
investigate the catalytic activities of the CEs, the Tafel curves were measured in the
symmetric cell (CE-CE cell) configuration which consists of two identical CE”.
7. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “The Tafel curve
based on the NiS submicron cubes electrode shows a relative higher J0 and Jlim compared
with the Pt electrode”.
8. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “The higher J0
and Jlim mean that the NiS submicron cubes electrode has better catalytic activity for the
I3- reduction”.
<U+F0B7> Report 2:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_9
This manuscript needs a major revision and further review. The comments are
given as below.
1. The experiment results should be exhibited in the abstract part.
2. The limitation and novelty of this investigation has to be clarified in more
detail.
3. Authors should include the following references in the introduction part for
more readable, relevant to different methods used to synthesize various
functional inorganic nanostructures and its property-applications. J.
Materials Chem. A 2017, 5, 21688-21698; Scripta Materialia 2008,
58, 1010-1013;[1]; J. Nanosci. and Nanotech. 2007, 7, 3117-3125; Bulletin of
the Korean Chem. Soc. 2007, 28, 1985-1992; Appl. Catal. A: General 2015,
489, 1-16; J. Polymer Sci. Part A: Polymer Chem. 2006, 44, 3355-3364; J.
Nanosci. and Nanotech. 2011, 11, 3692-3695; Macromol. Research 2011, 19,
66-71; Materials Research Express 2014, 1, 015012; Colloid and Surf. A 2008,
320, 49-56.
4. The source (company name, city and country) of all chemicals/materials
should be given in the experimental section.
5. In the preparation process of NiS, on what basis, the amount of reagents,
pyrolysis time and temperatures were determined?
6. The growth mechanism for the formation of NiS micro-cubes should be
explained in more detail based on the chemistry concept.
7. Please compare and discuss the differences between diffractions in Figure 2.
8. More characterization data is needed for this work such as SAED, EDS
with elemental mapping images, FTIR, and XPS data.
9.Please describe the quantum yield of synthesized materials.
10. This work needs more characterization such as SAED, EDS spectra with
elemental mapping images and XRD. Electrical characterization (I-V
characteristics) is also need to be given.
11. Authors should compare and contrast results in more details on the
photovoltaic properties of these materials with reported work in the literature.
12. How about the recyclability of the designed system for solar cells?
<U+F0B7> Response:
We do appreciate the reviewer’s comments and the constructive suggestions.
1. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have added the description in the
abstract part as: “The counter electrode composed of the NiS submicron cubes
could up to the photovoltaic efficiency of 6.4%, showing the superior
performance compared with the typical Pt electrode (which with the
corresponding conversion efficiencies of 5.3% at the same condition). ”
2. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have described it in the text as: “Enen
though, the RS of the NiS submicron cubes electrode based on FTO is a little
big compared with the large block of NiS or the metal based counter
electrode[7,11] , this also means that there is still the space to further improve
the conductivity of NiS electrode and correspondingly to improve the
photovoltaic efficiency. The NiS submicron cubes electrode is important in
that it offers a new low cost counter electrode with novel cubic morphology.”
(First paragraph, pages 4).
3. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have added some the references in the
introduction part as following: “It was found that the morphology and the
structure of the relevant material affect its catalytic properties greatly
[40-47].”
4. We appreciate the Reviewer’s suggestion. Following Reviewer’s suggestion,
we have added the source(company name, country) of all chemicals/materials
in the experimental sections, the changes are highlighted with yellow
background in the revised manuscript.
5. In the preparation process of NiS, in fact we did a series of experiments by
changing the synthesis temperature, reagent dosage and hydrolysis time.
Based on these experiments we discovered the proper method to compose the
NiS submicron cubes by the hydrothermal method.
6. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have added the description in the text
as: “We found that along with the hydrothermal time increases, the diameter of
the NiS submicron cubes could gradually increase, and the growth mechanism
of the grains is likely to be the hydrothermal growth of NiS submicron cubes
accompanied by the dissolution of smaller NiS grains.” (First paragraph, pages
3)
7. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have added the description in the text
as: “The main difference between the diffractions in Figure 2 is that the
intensity of the peaks were reduced after the NiS submicron cubes were
sintered for 1 h at 400<U+2103> in the argon atmosphere. This is probably because
the high temperature could lead to some potential signs of phase transition in
the crystal structure, which leads to a little decrease in the crystallinity of the
NiS powder. ” (Second paragraph, pages 3)
8. The Reviewer’s opinion is understood. Following Reviewer’s suggestion,
we have added the EDS spectrum of the NiS submicron cubes in the
Supplementary Materials (see Fig.S2), this EDS spectrum could help to
determine the elemental composition of the NiS. The selected area electron
diffraction (SAED) have been shown in the TEM images (Fig.1), which
clearly shows the single crystal electron diffraction pattern of the hexagonal
NiS, see Fig. 1e and Fig. 1f. And the SAED patterns of the samples in the
TEM images are consistent with the parameters of the XRD patterns shown in
Fig. 2. These characterization data could determine the crystal structure of
NiS.
9. The Reviewer’s require and concern is reasonable. We think the overall
average quantum yield of the synthesized NiS materials is proportional to the
overall photovoltaic efficiency (<U+03B7>), which actually have been described in the
text (the third paragraph, pages 3) as “When using the NiS submicron cubes
electrode as the counter electrode, the corresponding <U+03B7> is 5.9%, showing the
superior performance compared with the Pt electrode. When using the NiS
submicron cubes-400 electrode as the counter electrode, the corresponding <U+03B7>
was further increased to 6.4%”. Such a description has been able to reflect the
average quantum efficiency of the NiS materials relative to the platinum.
10. The point is understood. But actually, the almost same problem that is
repeated in this question and the eighth question, and please see the response
of the eighth question. In addition, the electrical characterizations (I-V
characteristics) have already been given in the paper (see Fig.3).
11. Following Reviewer’s suggestion, we have added the description in the
text as: “The relative trend of these parameters indicates that the catalytic
performance of NiS electrode is superior to that of Pt electrode, which is
similar with that reported in the literature [12, 30].” (First paragraph, pages 5)
12. The question put forward by the reviewer is very forward-looking and
practical. The solar cells with the NiS material as the counter electrode could
have a long service life which is compared with the platinum. After the service
life is end, all parts of the photovoltaic module should first be dismantled
separately, and then the heavy metals and iodine elements should be recovered
separately in order to facilitate the recycling of materials.
Thanks again for reviewer’s comments and suggestions.
Thank you and look forward to the comments from you and the reviewers.
Sincerely yours,
Qiwei Jiang
School of Physics and Electronic, Henan University, Kaifeng 475001, China.
Email: jqw@vip.henu.edu.cn
Society Open
