Three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTs nanocomposite with
enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic
glucose biosensors and biofuel cells
Kailong Jiao, Yu Jiang, Zepeng Kang, Ruiyun Peng, Shuqiang Jiao and Zongqian Hu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170991.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170991
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 21 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170991.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this work, the authors made a three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTS nanocomposite with
enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors and biofuel cells.
The work is complete and systematic. However, there are a few concerns should be considered.
1. The significance of this work is not clear. What’s the main contribution of this paper.
2. Some comparison of different supports, such as active carbon, should be investigated.
3. The author didn’t present any information on the 3D structure of Co3O4@MWNTS. More
characteristics needs to be done.
4. The SEM in Figure 2 especially a and b can not reflect the appearance of material well.
5. Why the size of the Co3O4 in Co3O4@MWNTS is small than pure Co3O4? And the author
should note the relationship between particle size and catalytic activity.
6. What is the main reason for the enhanced electrochemical performance? The catalytic activity
of Co3O4 or electrical conductivity of MWNTS?
7. What other materials composited with Co3O4 were reported in the literature expect MWNTS?
We believe that the authors should cite relevant literature and compare them in electrochemical
tests.
8. The language needs to be improved greatly. For example, in page 3, line 11, the written (-2.87
× 103 kJ mol-1) is not right. In page 5, line 29, 200-ml should be 200-mL.
According to the concerns above, I suggest this paper to be published after a major revision.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Comments:
In this manuscript, the authors reported the synthesis of Co3O4@MWNTs leads to improvement
enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors and biofuel cells.
However, regarding the enhanced catalysis activity, some related discussion is not convinced.
Therefore, some critical issues should be addressed carefully.
1. From the introduction, “we constructed three dimensional (3D) nanoarchitectures of
Co3O4@MWNTs by a facile hydrothermal method”, you should prove that structure was three
dimensional (3D) nanoarchitectures, in your paper, SEM,TEM images is not obvious show that it
is 3D structure.
2. Recently, Co3O4/CNTs nanocomposites have been reported for catalyst in sensor and energy
storage, compared with such materials, what are the unique features of Co3O4@MWNTs? You
must indicate the characteristics of your synthetic sample, such as particle size and dispersion,
and so on. The electrochemical performance of Co3O4-based electrodes should also be listed in a
Table for comparison.
3. From this article, you are the main introduction the electrochemical catalytic activity of the
materials, but the cyclic stability are not obvious. Cyclic stability experiment should be add.
4. Please add data on nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurements of the prepared sample.
5. There are some errors in grammar and words in the article. Abbreviations should be unified.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170991)
05-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Hu,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTs nanocomposite with
enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors and biofuel cells")
have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Sep-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
4
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170991
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Anthony Stace
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
In this work, the authors made a three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTS nanocomposite with
enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors and biofuel cells.
The work is complete and systematic. However, there are a few concerns should be considered.
1. The significance of this work is not clear. What’s the main contribution of this paper.
2. Some comparison of different supports, such as active carbon, should be investigated.
3. The author didn’t present any information on the 3D structure of Co3O4@MWNTS. More
characteristics needs to be done.
4. The SEM in Figure 2 especially a and b can not reflect the appearance of material well.
5. Why the size of the Co3O4 in Co3O4@MWNTS is small than pure Co3O4? And the author
should note the relationship between particle size and catalytic activity.
6. What is the main reason for the enhanced electrochemical performance? The catalytic activity
of Co3O4 or electrical conductivity of MWNTS?
7. What other materials composited with Co3O4 were reported in the literature expect MWNTS?
We believe that the authors should cite relevant literature and compare them in electrochemical
tests.
8. The language needs to be improved greatly. For example, in page 3, line 11, the written (-2.87
× 103 kJ mol-1) is not right. In page 5, line 29, 200-ml should be 200-mL.
According to the concerns above, I suggest this paper to be published after a major revision.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Comments:
In this manuscript, the authors reported the synthesis of Co3O4@MWNTs leads to improvement
enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors and biofuel cells.
However, regarding the enhanced catalysis activity, some related discussion is not convinced.
Therefore, some critical issues should be addressed carefully.
1. From the introduction, “we constructed three dimensional (3D) nanoarchitectures of
Co3O4@MWNTs by a facile hydrothermal method”, you should prove that structure was three
dimensional (3D) nanoarchitectures, in your paper, SEM,TEM images is not obvious show that it
is 3D structure.
6
2. Recently, Co3O4/CNTs nanocomposites have been reported for catalyst in sensor and energy
storage, compared with such materials, what are the unique features of Co3O4@MWNTs? You
must indicate the characteristics of your synthetic sample, such as particle size and dispersion,
and so on. The electrochemical performance of Co3O4-based electrodes should also be listed in a
Table for comparison.
3. From this article, you are the main introduction the electrochemical catalytic activity of the
materials, but the cyclic stability are not obvious. Cyclic stability experiment should be add.
4. Please add data on nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurements of the prepared sample.
5. There are some errors in grammar and words in the article. Abbreviations should be unified.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170991)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170991.R1)
21-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Hu,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTs
nanocomposite with enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose biosensors
and biofuel cells" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
7
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Qin Chen (Associate Editor) and Anthony Stace (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Editor,
Thank you very much for your letter and the comments from the referees about
our paper submitted. The manuscript entitled “Three-dimensional Co3O4@MWNTs
nanocomposite with enhanced electrochemical performance for nonenzymatic glucose
biosensors and biofuel cells” have been revised according to the reviewers’ comments,
and we wish it to be reconsidered for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
List of important Actions
LOA 1: The figure of N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms of the samples were
added to the supporting information. The responding contents were written in
manuscript. (page 8).
LOA 2: The figure 2 was revised by adding the clearer SEM and TEM figures of
Co3O4@MWNTs and the SEM and HRTEM figures of Co3O4 were transferred into the
supporting information. (page 23)
LOA 3: The figure of cyclic stability and related content were added. (page 14,
26)
Reviewer 1
Thank you for pointing out the problems existing in the manuscript. We have revised
the manuscript according to your comments and answered the questions in the
following.
Comment 1: The significance of this work is not clear. What’s the main contribution
of this paper?
Response: Thanks for your comment. The main contribution of this paper is that the
excellent electrochemical properties, low cost, and facile preparation of
Co3O4@MWNTs demonstrates the potential of strongly coupled oxide/nanocarbon
hybrid as effective electrocatalyst in glucose fuel cells and biosensors.
Comment 2: Some comparison of different supports, such as active carbon, should be
investigated.
Response: Thanks for your advice. The different supports of three-dimensional
macroporous carbon and graphene have been investigated and listed in Table 1. (page
13)
Comment 3: The author didn’t present any information on the 3D structure of
Co3O4@MWNTs. More characteristics needs to be done.
Response: Thanks for your advice and we have done the experiment again to obtain a
clearer SEM and TEM figures to show the 3D structure of Co3O4@MWNTs.
Comment 4: The SEM in Figure 2 especially a and b can not reflect the appearance of
material well.
Response: We agree with your comment and we have done the experiment again to
obtain a clearer SEM and TEM figures, SEM (Fig. 2a) and TEM (Fig. 2b) figures of
Co3O4@MWNTs and TEM figure (Fig. 2c) of Co3O4, reflect the appearance of the
materials better.
Comment 5: Why the size of the Co3O4 in Co3O4@MWNTs is small than pure Co3O4?
And the author should note the relationship between particle size and catalytic activity.
Response: Thank you for your comment. The nucleation speed of Co3O4 was higher
with the existence of MWNTs in the same undercooling, leading to smaller particle size
of Co3O4.on the surface of MWNTs than that of pure Co3O4. The relationship between
particle size and catalytic activity is that the smaller size of Co3O4 particles in the
Co3O4@MWNTs possesses larger specific surface area and higher contact area with the
electrolyte, leading to a more rapid reaction.
Comment 6: What is the main reason for the enhanced electrochemical performance?
The catalytic activity of Co3O4 or electrical conductivity of MWNTs?
Response: Enhanced electrochemical performance is attributed to two aspects: on one
hand, the Co3O4@MWNTs have better conductivity than that of pure Co3O4, which can
guarantee the quick transition of electrons; on the other hand, smaller size of Co3O4
particles in the Co3O4@MWNTs leads to higher contact area with the electrolyte and
larger reaction area.
Comment 7: What other materials composited with Co3O4 were reported in the
literature expect MWNTs? We believe that the authors should cite relevant literature
and compare them in electrochemical tests.
Response: Thank you for your advice. We have cited other materials, such as Co3O4-
graphene and three-dimensional macroporous carbon/hierarchical Co3O4 nanoclusters,
for comparison in Table 1.
Comment 8: The language needs to be improved greatly. For example, in page 3, line
11, the written (-2.87 × 103 kJ mol-1) is not right. In page 5, line 29, 200-ml should be
200-mL.
Response: Thanks for your careful work and we have corrected it in the revised
manuscript. (page 3, 5)
Reviewer 2
Thank you for pointing out the problems existing in the manuscript. We have revised
the manuscript according to your comments and answered the questions in the
following.
Comment 1: From the introduction, “we constructed three dimensional (3D)
nanoarchitectures of Co3O4@MWNTs by a facile hydrothermal method”, you should
prove that structure was three dimensional (3D) nanoarchitectures, in your paper, SEM,
TEM images is not obvious show that it is 3D structure.
Response: Thanks for your advices have done the experiment again to obtain a clearer
SEM and TEM figures to show the 3D structure of Co3O4@MWNTs.
Comment 2: Recently, Co3O4/CNTs nanocomposites have been reported for catalyst
in sensor and energy storage, compared with such materials, what are the unique
features of Co3O4@MWNTs? You must indicate the characteristics of your synthetic
sample, such as particle size and dispersion, and so on. The electrochemical
performance of Co3O4-based electrodes should also be listed in a Table for comparison.
Response: Thanks for your advices. The electrochemical performance of the prepared
Co3O4@MWNTs and other materials composited with Co3O4, such as Co3O4-graphene
and three-dimensional macroporous carbon/hierarchical Co3O4 nanoclusters electrodes
have been listed in Table 1.
Comment 3: From this article, you are the main introduction the electrochemical
catalytic activity of the materials, but the cyclic stability are not obvious. Cyclic
stability experiment should be add.
Response: Thanks for your advice. We texted the cyclic stability of the
Co3O4@MWNTs for 100 cycles, and shown in Fig. 5a.
Comment 4: Please add data on nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurements of the
prepared sample.
Response: Thanks for your advice. The nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurements
were conducted on a Micromeritics Instrument Corporation sorption analyzer
(Micromeritics TriStar II 3020) and the N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms of the
Co3O4 and Co3O4@MWNTs were shown in Fig. S3 (supporting information).
Comment 5: There are some errors in grammar and words in the article. Abbreviations
should be unified.
Response: Thanks for your careful work and we have corrected it in the revised
manuscript.
We are looking forward to hearing from you.
Best wishes
Sincerely yours,
Zongqian Hu
Society Open
