Phenotype-limited distributions: short-billed birds move
away during times that prey bury deeply
Sjoerd Duijns, Jan A. van Gils, Jennifer Smart and Theunis Piersma
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150073.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150073
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 February 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society Journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150073.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Bjarni Kristjánsson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is not clear to me
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review of the manuscript “Phenotype-limited distributions: short-billed birds move away during
times that prey bury deeply“ by Duijns et al.
The study deals with an interesting sexually related migration in Limosa lapponica in relation to
changes in resource availability. Accompanying the manuscript were the authors responses to
two previous reviewers from the Proceedings of the Royal Society B. Overall I find the study
interesting, the findings valid and the paper well written. Based on the comments to the reviewer
I believe that the authors have overall responded well to the reviewer comments. Below are some
comments I have in regards to the manuscript.
Your objectives could be strengthened by stating them as clear hypothesis and/or predictions. As
it now stands it is quite vague.
I find the discussion on the sub-species vague and irrelevant. I think it would strengthen the
manuscript if both sub-species would be treated as one species L. Lapponica. This is especially
true as “a considerable proportion of bar-tailed godwits cannot be assigned to either subspecies
using morphometrics – line 87 -89”. This would lessen confusion in the MS.
A weakness of the manuscript is the different times between the measurement of burying depth,
density and length of lugworms (1980/1981) and the time of measurement (2014). Although the
authors claim that there are no differences - “the current sea water temperatures are similar to the
early 1980s“ - and those differences that were observed (1.2°C) are much smaller than differences
between seasons. I am not convinced. I feel that the above statement is really vague, and probably
put in as a response to former review. I also understand that the authors do not have a time
machine and cannot get this data. I, however, believe that the authors should discuss the
possibilities that this time, and these temperature changes, could have on their observations.
The discussion is quite weak, and could be strengthened by more focused discussion in relation
to the results of the paper. The last paragraph of the discussion is quite general and could be
greatly strengthened. Furthermore a conclusion paragraph in the end of the discussion could
greatly improve the manuscript
Line 38 – How does phenotypic flexibility differ from phenotypic plasticity? Furthermore in lines
39 – 40, structures such as bill length could be seen to be plastic in response to feeding, as has for
example been seen in oystercatchers.
Line 49 – You should give a reference for the statement that “food availability is relatively easy to
quantify in intertidal areas”. I would assume that is not always the case and dependent on which
type of intertidal area we are talking about. I assume that you are referring to mud-flats in this
case.
Line 56 - I would say “prey species have”
Line 216 – 217. – “We propose that there may be balanced selection between longer bills in winter
and shorter bills in summer“ – That is hardly the focus of this manuscript. How high is the death
rate of adult birds, in summer and winter? Is it enough to show evidence of balancing selection. I
think this last sentence could be omitted.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150073)
15-Apr-2015
Dear Dr. Duijns,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Phenotype-limited distributions: short-billed birds
move away during times that prey bury deeply") has now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 08-May-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150073)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150073.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Bjarni Kristjánsson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
5
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I believe the authors have dealt nicely with all the comments I had on the manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150073.R1)
14-May-2015
Dear Mrs Duijns:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150073.R1
entitled "Phenotype-limited distributions: short-billed birds move away during times that prey
bury deeply" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science,
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication so please proofread your article
carefully and ensure all the below editorial comments are addressed where appropriate.
Thank you for indicating the you are happy to submit your data to dryad. You can do this via the
below link
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=34095652RSOS-150073.R1
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
6
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-May-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
7
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150073.R1)
Dear Emilie Aime,
We would like to thank you and the reviewer for accepting our ms. As there were no additional
comments to our ms, we have not revised our ms, except we uploaded our data into Dryad and
included this in our ms.
Kind regards, also on behalf of my co-authors,
Sjoerd Duijns
Appendix A
Dear Emilie Aime,
We are excited and pleased to see the positive comments on our manuscript ID
label_version_3
RSOS-150073 “Phenotype-limited distributions: short-billed birds move away
during times that prey bury deeply”.
As there were only a few comments, we have dealt with all the
comments/questions according to the suggestions. Our responses are given in bold
under each comment.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of the manuscript “Phenotype-limited distributions: short-billed birds move
away during times that prey bury deeply“ by Duijns et al.
The study deals with an interesting sexually related migration in Limosa lapponica in
relation to changes in resource availability. Accompanying the manuscript were the
authors responses to two previous reviewers from the Proceedings of the Royal
Society B. Overall I find the study interesting, the findings valid and the paper well
written. Based on the comments to the reviewer I believe that the authors have
overall responded well to the reviewer comments. Below are some comments I
have in regards to the manuscript.
Your objectives could be strengthened by stating them as clear hypothesis and/or
predictions. As it now stands it is quite vague.
We have now included a clear hypothesis and predictions, as suggested by the
referee.
I find the discussion on the sub-species vague and irrelevant. I think it would
strengthen the manuscript if both sub-species would be treated as one species L.
lapponica. This is especially true as “a considerable proportion of bar-tailed godwits
cannot be assigned to either subspecies using morphometrics – line 87 -89”. This
would lessen confusion in the MS.
We understand the remarks from the referee and we initially treated both sub-
species as one species. However, a referee from Proceedings B who is very
knowledgeable on this topic suggested to differentiate between the two
subspecies, as taymyrensis are on average smaller than lapponica. The two
subspecies also differ with respect to their wintering sites (Duijns et al. 2012.
Revisiting the proposed leap-frog migration of bar-tailed godwits along the East-
Atlantic flyway. Ardea 100, 37-43). However, they still represent a single species
with distinct sexes that will experience similar ecological selection pressures, so we
have now shifted the focus on the species level, with the acknowledgement of the
existence of what some authors have considered subspecies.
A weakness of the manuscript is the different times between the measurement of
burying depth, density and length of lugworms (1980/1981) and the time of
measurement (2014). Although the authors claim that there are no differences - “the
current sea water temperatures are similar to the early 1980s“ - and those
differences that were observed (1.2°C) are much smaller than differences between
seasons. I am not convinced. I feel that the above statement is really vague, and
probably put in as a response to former review. I also understand that the authors
do not have a time machine and cannot get this data. I, however, believe that the
authors should discuss the possibilities that this time, and these temperature
changes, could have on their observations.
We would like to emphasize that burying depth appears to be driven by changes in
day length rather than changes in seawater temperature, at least in the case of
polychaetes (line 52-54 original MS). That said, we agree with the referee that we
should discuss the different times between the measurement of burying depth,
density and length of lugworms (1980/1981) and the time of measurement (2014).
We have added a few sentences in the discussion on this topic.
The discussion is quite weak, and could be strengthened by more focused discussion
in relation to the results of the paper. The last paragraph of the discussion is quite
general and could be greatly strengthened. Furthermore a conclusion paragraph in
the end of the discussion could greatly improve the manuscript
We have tried to improve the Discussion in the light of this comment by focussing
more on the Results. We also included a conclusion paragraph as suggested by the
reviewer.
Line 38 – How does phenotypic flexibility differ from phenotypic plasticity?
Phenotypic plasticity itself indicates the general capacity for change or
transformation within genotypes in response to different environmental
conditions (Piersma & Drent. 2003 Phenotypic flexibility and the evolution of
organismal design. Tends Ecol Evol 18, 228-233) and phenotypic flexibility is a
category of phenotypic plasticity. Thus, the critical distinction is that flexibility is
reversible (and often cyclic), whereas plasticity may not be (line 35).
Furthermore in lines 39 – 40, structures such as bill length could be seen to be plastic
in response to feeding, as has for example been seen in oystercatchers.
Indeed, bill length might be considered as a plastic response to foraging behaviour,
but this has only been shown in oystercatchers. In this study species (bar-tailed
godwit), this appears not to be case as we mentioned in line 113 of the original
MS: “…recaptures (> 1 year interval) of marked bar-tailed godwits show no
evidence of intra-individual variation in bill length (F1,12 = 936.5 , R2 = 0.99, P <
0.001; slope = 0.95 s.e. 0.03 and intercept = 4.5 s.e. 2.6). We have left it as it was.
Line 49 – You should give a reference for the statement that “food availability is
relatively easy to quantify in intertidal areas”. I would assume that is not always the
case and dependent on which type of intertidal area we are talking about. I assume
that you are referring to mud-flats in this case.
Indeed, we are referring to mud-flats and we added a reference for this statement
(Compton et al. 2013. J Sea Res).
Line 56 - I would say “prey species have”
Changed as suggested.
Line 216 – 217. – “We propose that there may be balanced selection between longer
bills in winter and shorter bills in summer“ – That is hardly the focus of this
manuscript. How high is the death rate of adult birds, in summer and winter? Is it
enough to show evidence of balancing selection. I think this last sentence could be
omitted.
We do not have sufficient data to show survival differences between seasons yet,
so we agree we cannot show evidence for a balanced selection. We have changed
the last sentence to: “…suggesting there may be selection for longer bills in winter
and shorter bills in summer”.
Society Open
