Calculating mutual information for spike trains and other
data with distances but no coordinates
Conor Houghton
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140391.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140391
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 31 March 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140391.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jonathan Victor)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In brief, I would describe this paper as a gem, but a gem-in-the-rough. The gem part: it derives an
elegantly simple formula for information in an important context that is largely unexplored. The
in-the-rough part: to me, the exposition leaves a lot to be desired, and there are questions that
impact on its applicability. The author may choose to defer addressing these questions to a later
work, but I do think that at least they should be mentioned. In detail – point C is the most
important, but I hope that all can be addressed:
A. (exposition) The author invokes the Kozachenko-Leonenko approach, but the relationship
should be clarified. To my understanding, the Kozachenko-Leonenko approach is based on an
extremely local estimate of densities (nearest-neighbor distances), and therefore has a term
related to the dimensionality of the space, namely, the volume of a spherical ball in r dimensions.
This term is missing here, perhaps because the density estimate is no longer extremely local, but
based on a count of occurrences within some ball. So the approach does an “end run” around
obtaining a local dimensionality estimate. But this should be made explicit.
B. (exposition) Related to point A: the Kozachenko-Leonenko approach, even for differential
entropy, has a term equal to the log of the Euler constant, and this arises from the assumption
that the sample points are locally Poisson. No such term arises here. Why is this?
C. (exposition and applicability) Possibly related to point B: The estimate appears to depend on
the choice of h, the fraction of the space’s volume used to count occupancy of the balls. If h is 1,
the information estimate, I think , is 0. So presumably we want to take some kind of limit as h
goes to 0. But how do we know that this limit exists, and, under what circumstances is it stable?
And why doesn’t it matter (see remark preceding eq. 2.16) whether one computes balls in the
joint space SxR as Cartesian products, or via some other means, such as a Minkowski
combination?
D. (exposition) I find the initial part of the exposition, up to eq. 2.13, somewhat of a distraction.
To me, it would suffice to say that there’s a natural measure of volume in the space S, given by
probability. In this measure, the volume of the space is obviously 1. And then, when one
computes entropy relative to a natural measure, the result is always the log of the natural
measure, which in this case is log(1)=0. (More typically, if the natural measure is the count N of
the number of items – all of which are assumed to be different – the entropy is log(N)).
E. (exposition) It might be possible to derive the final result (eq. 2.18), or at least to place it into
context, by first mentioning that information is the Kullback-Liebler divergence between the
actual joint probability distribution, and the product distribution – and here, we estimate this
ratio, point by point, by ball occupancies. I think this streamlines things a lot, and adds insight –
and by no means detracts from the novelty of the approach.
Minor things:
There’s a recent book chapter by Shapira and Nelken in “Spike Timing: Mechanisms and
Function (DiLorenzo and Victor, eds) that introduces an information estimator based on
combining the spike time metric and the Kozachenko-Leonenko estimator, but with a different
strategy – obtaining a local estimate of dimensionality.
In many places the notation is unclear. A few specifics: (1) There are numerous sums over “i”
but it is unclear whether i runs over stimuli, stimulus classes, responses, etc. (2) In eq. 2.14, what
is c(r_i)? (3) In eqs. 2.14, 2.15: should n/n_h be n_h/n?
3
The comments following eq. 2.13, especially the last 4 lines of that paragraph, are very difficult to
understand.
There seem to be many typos, for example, “population of neuron” in the Introduction.
Jonathan Victor
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Simon Schultz)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper provides a neat - and relatively simple, although not simplistic - conceptual advance
in calculating mutual information between quantities which have a natural notion of similarity
but no obvious coordinate system. The paper derives in a more rigorous way a formula
previously proposed by Houghton, and then specialises it to metric spaces. I would like to see
how much in practice this improves calculations over the Kraskov estimator. The previous paper
but these authors in Entropy does such a comparison with histogram methods, but not with the
Kraskov estimator. I think that at the very least the authors should discuss the relationship to and
likely performance comparison with, the Kraskov estimator. I would think it would be desirable
to also include a figure showing such a comparison on a typical (preferably publicly available)
dataset (whether real or surrogate data). This would help readers appreciate the context and
applicability of the method proposed.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140391)
05-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Houghton,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Calculating mutual information for spike trains and
other data with distances but no coordinates.") has now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
4
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Mar-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
5
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140391)
I was very pleased by the reports on my paper; it is great to have a paper called a "gem" and
"simple without being simplicist"! I recognize though that there was a problem with exposition, a
problem I believe I have addressed in this new version. I have now made numerous changes to
my manuscript, including a discussion of the Kraskov estimator as suggested by the second
referee. I feel the manuscript has been improved considerably as a consequence.
I am very grateful for the referee's help with this. I hope that my manuscript will now be suitable
for publication in Royal Society Open Science. I think one of the principle problems in the
previous version was that I introduced the distance-based open ball at the start of the methods
section as if it would be used as the required region for both the estimates when, in fact, only the
first estimate uses the open ball, the second requires the more complicated square. I have now
changed this, I have seperated the two estimates using subsection headings and put the open ball
in the appropriate subsection. The first reviewer had a set of lettered comments on the
manuscript.
A) I have tried to clarify the nature of the "end run" around the dimensionality in a broad rewrite
of the methods section; as the reviewer notes this end run uses the counting-based estimate of
volume, it also relies on the simpler version of Kozachenko-Leonenko approach which counts
points in the region rather than fixing the region to contain a fixed number of points. I have made
this more explicit.
B) The Euler constant is avoided by choosing a simpler Kozachanko-Leonenko approach; I have
tried to point out in the text where the simplification arises though I have avoided giving the
original Kozachenko-Leonenko formula for fear of having to introduce more notation and
confusing the exposition. The degree of simplification that result from a small change to the
Kozachanko-Leonenko approach certainly surprised me!
C) This is a very good point and one I haven't addressed in this paper, though the numerical
experiment in Tobin and Houghton 2013 (Entropy 15, 4540-4552) appear to indicate that the
performance of the estimate is robust against the choice of n_h. I have added a paragraph to the
discussion "owning up" to this. As for the Cartesian product, the joint distribution takes values in
6
the Cartesian product, so it does seem a natural choice. I have tried to make the procedure work
for other choices and failed, if you use p_{R,S}(r,s) to define the volume measure and calculate
H(R)+H(S), that is working the other way around, you end up with the same formula I give, but
the derivation is more involved.
D) I have tried to improve this aspect of the exposition, the methods section has been reordered
and substantially rewritten with this comment in mind.
E) This is an interesting point; I have now included a formula for the KL divergence, I think this
is a useful application of the approach and I am very grateful for the suggestion. I have thanked
the referee in the Acknowledgements, I hope this is appropriate.
The KL divergence formula can be used to derive the formula for mutual information, but I am
not sure this is any more straight-forward than the approach already described. Minor things. I
have included that reference, many thanks. I have included the limits of any sums and moved
away from the convention that used "n" for everything, in particular, I use "N" for the number of
data points and "h" where before I had "n_h". As pointed out, n/n_h was incorrect, I have
corrected it to n_h/n, which is now written as h/N. I have given some attention to the paragraph
following 2.13 and hope that it has improved. I have hunted out many typos. The second referee
asks if the formula in this paper improves on the Kraskov estimator. I do not believe that it does
and I have now added a short paragraph to the paper to point out that the numerical experiment
in Tobin and Houghton showed that the two estimates gaves indistinguishable performances on
that simulated data. If the estimator here has an advantage over the Kraskov estimator it is in that
it is derived without reference to a manifold structure, I suspect that in practice neither is better
than the other and I have tried to make this clear in the manuscript. I have not added a numerical
experiment to the manuscript; the first estimate, the one where one variable is discrete, has
already been tested whereas for the second, I was concerned that the numerical experiments I had
considered would seem arbitrary and contrived, I could not decide what would be a typical data
set. On the other hand to do a full exploration of the formula or to apply the approach to real data
would certainly take a long time and would lead to a very different, perhaps less focused, paper;
one I hope me, or someone else, will work on in the future.
label_version_2
RSOS-140391.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jonathan Victor)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
7
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The ms is markedly improved, and all of my concerns are fully addressed.
There's an obvious typo in the final sentence prior to conclusions.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140391.R1)
13-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Houghton,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Calculating mutual information for
spike trains and other data with distances but no coordinates." is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science. Please do correct the typo listed by the reviewer during the proofing
stage.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Society Open
