Ghosts of infections past: using archival samples to
understand a century of monkeypox virus prevalence
among host communities across space and time
Madeline S. Tiee, Ryan J. Harrigan, Henri A. Thomassen and Thomas B. Smith
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171089.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171089
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171089.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jason Ladner)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In “Ghosts of infections past: …”, Tiee et al. use RT-PCR and sanger sequencing to screen
museum collections of Funisciurus squirrels from Central and Western Africa for evidence of
monkeypox virus infection. The manuscript is well written, the analysis is sound and the results
contribute substantially to our understanding of the ecology of this important virus. However,
there are several minor issues that need to be addressed before the manuscript will be ready for
publication:
1. I don’t think that this manuscript has really looked at “host community dynamics”. This phrase
should probably be cut from the title.
2. The use of the term “host” throughout the manuscript is a bit vague and confusing. For
example on Lines 44-45 “Of these, more than half infect multiple animal hosts and reservoirs.”
What is the distinction being drawn between hosts and reservoirs? And on Lines 47-48, “their
relative roles in transmitting disease within host communities and into human populations.” Are
humans not considered a host? Please clearly define “host”, “reservoir”, “multi-host community”
and how humans fit into this framework. And make sure that these terms are used consistently
throughout the manuscript.
3. Please clarify what the presence of MPXV DNA within the skin actually means. Does this
signify an acute infection at the time of death? Or is the virus persistent within squirrel hosts?
What is known about MPXV infection in these squirrels? Does it cause disease? Death?
4. Within the results, please summarize the level of genetic diversity observed within the MPXV
partial genome sequences obtained from Sanger sequencing. I understand the region is quite
small and therefore unlikely to be useful for phylogenetic analysis, but since sequences were
obtained, a brief mention of the level of genetic diversity would be appropriate.
5. In figures 1 and 2, a separate color, outside of the scheme currently in use (perhaps grey),
should be used to highlight regions where zero positive specimens were detected. By utilizing the
range 0-0.20, it is impossible to distinguish regions with low abundance from regions without the
virus. Please also provide a legend for the size of circles.
6. In several places throughout the manuscript (e.g., Lines 32, 77, 285), it is stated that the
presence of MPXV in samples from >100 years ago provides support for the idea that historic
pox-like outbreaks may actually have resulted from MPXV rather than small pox. However, there
is insufficient context provided for the reader to evaluate the validity or importance of this claim.
Were these outbreaks originally assumed to be small pox outbreaks? Why? Did these outbreaks
occur in the same regions investigated in this study? Was MPXV thought to have emerged more
recently? Please clarify these points.
7. Lines 33-36: Reword to clarify meaning. The “two new potential host species” are among the
five mentioned in the previous sentence, but this is not clear from the phrasing.
3
8. Line 43: “animal hosts” should be “non-human animal hosts”
9. Line 45: “ebola” should be “Ebola virus disease”
10. Line 54: “phylogenetic methods” should probably be “phylogenetic analysis”
11. Line 54: Please clarify what is meant by “intervention studies”
12. Lines 52-55: “These techniques often use recently collected samples that are limited in spatial
and temporal scope…” I think it is misguided to focus on “techniques” to make the argument for
the importance of historical samples. Several of these techniques, including phylogenetic analysis
and epidemiology, are not inherently limited to using recently collected samples, and they’re
certainly not limited to using samples that are spatially restricted. This section should be
rephrased. I would recommend focusing on the power of museum collections to expand
sampling breadth through space and time.
13. Line 60: “lyme disease” should be “Borrelia burgdorferi”
14. Line 62: What are the “assumptions inherent to these methods” and how did you control for
them? This has not been fully elaborated within the manuscript.
15. Line 70: Infection of what?
16. Line 81: “have been implicated as primary hosts” – based on what type of evidence?
17. Line 86: Clarify what you mean by “a better understanding”
18. Lines 139-140: Specify whether you performed the species identifications or whether these had
already been assigned during accession to the museum collection.
19. Line 154: Please clarify whether these two assays target the same or different regions of the
TNF gene.
20. Line 168: How was the “melting range” determined?
21. Lines 175-176: Please specify, on average, how many replicates provided sequence from each
positive sample.
22. Please add to the results a sentence indicating, at least in relative terms, the number of
samples tested for each squirrel species (i.e., some text to go along with the numbers in Table 1).
23. It is worth pointing out that MPXV was detected in at least one animal for all species with >18
samples tested. Therefore, with further testing, additional potential host species may be
identified.
24. Line 291: Reword - currently states that “Museum studies…suffer from…contamination
prevention”
25. Lines 301-303: What about differences in susceptibility of the different species? Or the
duration of infection? Or peak viral titers? There are many non-behavioral/ecological differences
between species that could explain these patterns.
4
26. Line 303: “contact rates” should be “transmission rates”?
27. Lines 303-307: In this context, what is known about F. congicus?
28. “Role of host community in MPXV transmission”: How well have host species population
genetics in these regions been studied? Is it possible that cryptic host species (or low levels of
migration) between regions could also play a role in virus distribution?
29. Line 334: “in other species” should be “to other species”?
30. Line 336: “limited in Angola where host density is low”, is this known or hypothetical? Please
clarify.
31. Lines 338-339: “low sampling and specimen collection outside of the range of anerythrus”.
Again, is this an observed trend or hypothetical?
32. Line 360: What is meant by “all forest habitats”?
33. Line 371: “relative differences” should be “relative differences in MPXV prevalence”
34. Figure 4 legend, Line 594: “red” should be “black”
35. Figure 3: As part of the figure, please include either the total number of samples or the total
number of positive samples for each species.
Jason Ladner
Pathogen and Microbiome Institute
Northern Arizona University
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
5
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript entitled: “Ghosts of infectious past: Using archival samples to understand a
century of host community dynamics and spatio-temporal prevalence of monkeypox virus” by
Tiee et al. presents the results of their research on the potential hosts of monkeypox virus. In
particular, they obtained skin samples from squirrels of the Genus Funisciurus from scientific
museum specimens to test them for the presence of monkeypox virus DNA. Identifying the
reservoir of this virus is a very relevant question that could lead to better interventions and
prevention of the disease in endemic areas. The approach presented here is innovative and has
the potential to shed some light on the poorly known natural history of Monkeypox virus.
However, I would like to point out some aspects that I consider relevant to the interpretation of
the results and, thus, addressing these issues would improve the quality of the manuscript.
- The measures taken to prevent contamination of samples are sufficient to ensure authenticity of
positives from their collection in the museum to processing in the laboratory; although it is
impossible for authors to control, authors should take into account the possibility of
contamination of museum specimens during collection, preparation, preservation and storage.
Field biologists (especially decades ago) do not normally take precautions necessary for virology
studies; thus, it is very likely that skins of animals were prepared without following any
precautions to avoid contamination. For example, using the same instruments for different
animals without sterilizing them or without washing hands or changing gloves between animals;
keeping animals in the same confined area/container (alive or dead) for some time before
processing them, which will conduct to contamination or increased exposure of these animals to
the virus (if one of them is infected); etc. Additionally, once specimens arrive to museums they
are put in drawers with specimens (normally the same or sister species, but also very distant
species) from the same or other geographic area; it is also possible that the specimens have been
moved/manipulated several times over the decades and had had contact with several other
specimens, increasing the chance of contamination. Potential effects of this contamination could
be seen as high prevalence in samples collected in the same locality at the same time; but
contamination between unrelated specimens is also possible (as explained above) and harder to
identify, but samples from the same Museum could be more likely to contaminate each other.
Would it be possible to examine the sequences of the positive samples and identify potential
contamination events? If individual infections can be confirmed by ruling-out contamination,
prevalence can be more accurately calculated.
- Unlike the Avipoxvirus studies cited by the authors, in which samples were collected from
warts (evidence of active infection), the skin samples analyzed in this manuscript do not
correspond to lesions, making it difficult to determine if the animals were infected with the virus
and positive results are not result of contamination. Presence of DNA is not always indicative of
infection. Did any of the museum specimens showed signs of infection (pox lesions)?
- The taxonomy of African mammals is not completely resolved, there could be misidentified
specimens and it is possible that some of them belong to undescribed species (e.g., Doty et al 2017
Viruses 9(10):283; Olayemi et al 2012 165(3):700-719; Falendysz et al 2017 PLoS NTD 11(8):
e0005809), I suggest sequencing of host DNA and phylogenetic analysis to confirm that the
specimens included in the study are from the indicated species. Correct identification of squirrel
species is a critical. This could confirm the authors’ observations of pairs of positive species in
unique localities (F. anerythrus, F. congicus and F. lemniscatus) and change prevalence
calculations and other analyses. Calculation of prevalence between species with proper
identification of the individuals could help the host community analysis (F. anerythrus and F.
congicus).
- It is mentioned that the primers for real time PCR were modified from the originally published
ones, was performance tested to verify that sensitivity and specificity were not changed by this
modification? Can CT values or number of copies be reported?
- Figures 1 and 2, add a scale for the circles to aid the interpretation of the number of specimens
in each locality.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171089)
13-Nov-2017
Dear Ms Tiee,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Ghosts of infections past: Using archival samples to
understand a century of host community dynamics and spatio-temporal prevalence of
monkeypox virus") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-Dec-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
7
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171089
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments from the Associate Editor:
Thank you for your paper, whist the two referees support publication of your article, the referees
highlights two additional assays to assist in making the correct estimates of prevalence.
8
Examine the sequences of the positive samples, to summarize the level of genetic diversity and
identify any evidence of possible cross contamination
Undertake phylogenetic analysis of the samples of African rope squirrel to confirm taxonomy.
Other studies (e.g. Doty et al 2017) indicate that there is a reasonable likelihood of cryptic species
in your samples
Doty, J. B., Malekani, J. M., Kalemba, L. N., Stanley, W. T., Monroe, B. P., Nakazawa, Y. U., …
Carroll, D. S. (2017). Assessing Monkeypox Virus Prevalence in Small Mammals at the Human-
Animal Interface in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Viruses, 9(10).
https://doi.org/10.3390/v9100283.
I appreciate that this is a big ask, and would require substantial additional analysis in order to
uncover cryptic species, but the existing DNA extracts could be used for this. You would
probably need to amplifying at least part of the cytochrome b gene so that your data can be
compared with other studies.
However, unfortunately, I think this is necessary as cryptic species would suggest different
ecological niches, and therefore species-specific social behaviours that affect MPXV contact rates,
which would be important for your interpretation.
If you are able to provide a robust explanation of why you are confident that the study does not
include cryptic species, this could potentially be an acceptable route.
Referee #1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In “Ghosts of infections past: …”, Tiee et al. use RT-PCR and sanger sequencing to screen
museum collections of Funisciurus squirrels from Central and Western Africa for evidence of
monkeypox virus infection. The manuscript is well written, the analysis is sound and the results
contribute substantially to our understanding of the ecology of this important virus. However,
there are several minor issues that need to be addressed before the manuscript will be ready for
publication:
1. I don’t think that this manuscript has really looked at “host community dynamics”. This phrase
should probably be cut from the title.
2. The use of the term “host” throughout the manuscript is a bit vague and confusing. For
example on Lines 44-45 “Of these, more than half infect multiple animal hosts and reservoirs.”
What is the distinction being drawn between hosts and reservoirs? And on Lines 47-48, “their
relative roles in transmitting disease within host communities and into human populations.” Are
humans not considered a host? Please clearly define “host”, “reservoir”, “multi-host community”
and how humans fit into this framework. And make sure that these terms are used consistently
throughout the manuscript.
3. Please clarify what the presence of MPXV DNA within the skin actually means. Does this
signify an acute infection at the time of death? Or is the virus persistent within squirrel hosts?
What is known about MPXV infection in these squirrels? Does it cause disease? Death?
4. Within the results, please summarize the level of genetic diversity observed within the MPXV
9
partial genome sequences obtained from Sanger sequencing. I understand the region is quite
small and therefore unlikely to be useful for phylogenetic analysis, but since sequences were
obtained, a brief mention of the level of genetic diversity would be appropriate.
5. In figures 1 and 2, a separate color, outside of the scheme currently in use (perhaps grey),
should be used to highlight regions where zero positive specimens were detected. By utilizing the
range 0-0.20, it is impossible to distinguish regions with low abundance from regions without the
virus. Please also provide a legend for the size of circles.
6. In several places throughout the manuscript (e.g., Lines 32, 77, 285), it is stated that the
presence of MPXV in samples from >100 years ago provides support for the idea that historic
pox-like outbreaks may actually have resulted from MPXV rather than small pox. However, there
is insufficient context provided for the reader to evaluate the validity or importance of this claim.
Were these outbreaks originally assumed to be small pox outbreaks? Why? Did these outbreaks
occur in the same regions investigated in this study? Was MPXV thought to have emerged more
recently? Please clarify these points.
7. Lines 33-36: Reword to clarify meaning. The “two new potential host species” are among the
five mentioned in the previous sentence, but this is not clear from the phrasing.
8. Line 43: “animal hosts” should be “non-human animal hosts”
9. Line 45: “ebola” should be “Ebola virus disease”
10. Line 54: “phylogenetic methods” should probably be “phylogenetic analysis”
11. Line 54: Please clarify what is meant by “intervention studies”
12. Lines 52-55: “These techniques often use recently collected samples that are limited in spatial
and temporal scope…” I think it is misguided to focus on “techniques” to make the argument for
the importance of historical samples. Several of these techniques, including phylogenetic analysis
and epidemiology, are not inherently limited to using recently collected samples, and they’re
certainly not limited to using samples that are spatially restricted. This section should be
rephrased. I would recommend focusing on the power of museum collections to expand
sampling breadth through space and time.
13. Line 60: “lyme disease” should be “Borrelia burgdorferi”
14. Line 62: What are the “assumptions inherent to these methods” and how did you control for
them? This has not been fully elaborated within the manuscript.
15. Line 70: Infection of what?
16. Line 81: “have been implicated as primary hosts” – based on what type of evidence?
17. Line 86: Clarify what you mean by “a better understanding”
18. Lines 139-140: Specify whether you performed the species identifications or whether these had
already been assigned during accession to the museum collection.
19. Line 154: Please clarify whether these two assays target the same or different regions of the
TNF gene.
10
20. Line 168: How was the “melting range” determined?
21. Lines 175-176: Please specify, on average, how many replicates provided sequence from each
positive sample.
22. Please add to the results a sentence indicating, at least in relative terms, the number of
samples tested for each squirrel species (i.e., some text to go along with the numbers in Table 1).
23. It is worth pointing out that MPXV was detected in at least one animal for all species with >18
samples tested. Therefore, with further testing, additional potential host species may be
identified.
24. Line 291: Reword - currently states that “Museum studies…suffer from…contamination
prevention”
25. Lines 301-303: What about differences in susceptibility of the different species? Or the
duration of infection? Or peak viral titers? There are many non-behavioral/ecological differences
between species that could explain these patterns.
26. Line 303: “contact rates” should be “transmission rates”?
27. Lines 303-307: In this context, what is known about F. congicus?
28. “Role of host community in MPXV transmission”: How well have host species population
genetics in these regions been studied? Is it possible that cryptic host species (or low levels of
migration) between regions could also play a role in virus distribution?
29. Line 334: “in other species” should be “to other species”?
30. Line 336: “limited in Angola where host density is low”, is this known or hypothetical? Please
clarify.
31. Lines 338-339: “low sampling and specimen collection outside of the range of anerythrus”.
Again, is this an observed trend or hypothetical?
32. Line 360: What is meant by “all forest habitats”?
33. Line 371: “relative differences” should be “relative differences in MPXV prevalence”
34. Figure 4 legend, Line 594: “red” should be “black”
35. Figure 3: As part of the figure, please include either the total number of samples or the total
number of positive samples for each species.
Jason Ladner
Pathogen and Microbiome Institute
Northern Arizona University
Referee #2
The manuscript entitled: “Ghosts of infectious past: Using archival samples to understand a
11
century of host community dynamics and spatio-temporal prevalence of monkeypox virus” by
Tiee et al. presents the results of their research on the potential hosts of monkeypox virus. In
particular, they obtained skin samples from squirrels of the Genus Funisciurus from scientific
museum specimens to test them for the presence of monkeypox virus DNA. Identifying the
reservoir of this virus is a very relevant question that could lead to better interventions and
prevention of the disease in endemic areas. The approach presented here is innovative and has
the potential to shed some light on the poorly known natural history of Monkeypox virus.
However, I would like to point out some aspects that I consider relevant to the interpretation of
the results and, thus, addressing these issues would improve the quality of the manuscript.
The measures taken to prevent contamination of samples are sufficient to ensure authenticity of
positives from their collection in the museum to processing in the laboratory; although it is
impossible for authors to control, authors should take into account the possibility of
contamination of museum specimens during collection, preparation, preservation and storage.
Field biologists (especially decades ago) do not normally take precautions necessary for virology
studies; thus, it is very likely that skins of animals were prepared without following any
precautions to avoid contamination. For example, using the same instruments for different
animals without sterilizing them or without washing hands or changing gloves between animals;
keeping animals in the same confined area/container (alive or dead) for some time before
processing them, which will conduct to contamination or increased exposure of these animals to
the virus (if one of them is infected); etc. Additionally, once specimens arrive to museums they
are put in drawers with specimens (normally the same or sister species, but also very distant
species) from the same or other geographic area; it is also possible that the specimens have been
moved/manipulated several times over the decades and had had contact with several other
specimens, increasing the chance of contamination. Potential effects of this contamination could
be seen as high prevalence in samples collected in the same locality at the same time; but
contamination between unrelated specimens is also possible (as explained above) and harder to
identify, but samples from the same Museum could be more likely to contaminate each other.
Would it be possible to examine the sequences of the positive samples and identify potential
contamination events? If individual infections can be confirmed by ruling-out contamination,
prevalence can be more accurately calculated.
Unlike the Avipoxvirus studies cited by the authors, in which samples were collected from warts
(evidence of active infection), the skin samples analyzed in this manuscript do not correspond to
lesions, making it difficult to determine if the animals were infected with the virus and positive
results are not result of contamination. Presence of DNA is not always indicative of infection. Did
any of the museum specimens showed signs of infection (pox lesions)?
The taxonomy of African mammals is not completely resolved, there could be misidentified
specimens and it is possible that some of them belong to undescribed species (e.g., Doty et al 2017
Viruses 9(10):283; Olayemi et al 2012 165(3):700-719; Falendysz et al 2017 PLoS NTD 11(8):
e0005809), I suggest sequencing of host DNA and phylogenetic analysis to confirm that the
specimens included in the study are from the indicated species. Correct identification of squirrel
species is a critical. This could confirm the authors’ observations of pairs of positive species in
unique localities (F. anerythrus, F. congicus and F. lemniscatus) and change prevalence
calculations and other analyses. Calculation of prevalence between species with proper
identification of the individuals could help the host community analysis (F. anerythrus and F.
congicus).
It is mentioned that the primers for real time PCR were modified from the originally published
ones, was performance tested to verify that sensitivity and specificity were not changed by this
modification? Can CT values or number of copies be reported?
12
Figures 1 and 2, add a scale for the circles to aid the interpretation of the number of specimens in
each locality.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171089)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171089.R1)
15-Dec-2017
Dear Ms Tiee,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Ghosts of infections past: Using
archival samples to understand a century of monkeypox virus prevalence among host
communities across space and time" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
13
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Matthew Collins (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
Center for Tropical Research
Institute of the Environment and Sustainability
La Kretz Hall, Suite 300, Box 149605
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1656
Email: tieem@ucla.edu
ecember 2017
al Society Open Science
yal Society Open Science Review Committee
n: Dr. Kevin Padian, Subject Editor for Biology (whole organism)
ar Dr. Kevin Padian and Royal Society Open Science Review Committee,
nk you for the opportunity to revise our manuscript now entitled “Ghosts of infections past:
ng archival samples to understand a century of monkeypox virus prevalence among host
munities across space and time”. We have carefully read and addressed each of the specific
iewer comments and suggested edits. Below we respond to the individual editor and
iewers’ comments in bold and have made the suggested changes to the manuscript or have
de clarifications where necessary.
are grateful to both reviewers for the useful comments and suggestions that have led to what
deem a much-improved manuscript. We thank you for your consideration of this work, and
uld there be any remaining questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.
cerely yours,
deline Tiee
m the Associate Editor:
nk you for your paper, whist the two referees support publication of your article, the referees
hlights two additional assays to assist in making the correct estimates of prevalence.
Thank you for the careful review; we have addressed each of the two major comments
below and in more detail in the reviewer responses. Should you have any other
suggestions or additions that you deem essential, please do not hesitate to ask.
mine the sequences of the positive samples, to summarize the level of genetic diversity and
ntify any evidence of possible cross contamination
The amplicons we chose for this study were specifically chosen for their conserved
genetic sequences and ability to differentiate between the two strains of MPXV (Congo
Basin vs West African strains). As a consequence, genetic diversity was expected to be
very low. Indeed, there is no genetic diversity among our positive samples and it is
difficult to assess if our positives are caused by contamination that occurred during the
collection, preparation, and storage of specimens. Contamination events occurring in
the field or during storage however are expected to further dilute viral copy number
found in contaminated specimens when compared to the source animal. Positive
samples for our study underwent a rigorous selection and had to meet various
guidelines before proceeding to the next more selective level of confirmation. In order to
be positive, each sample had to amplify by real-time PCR, melt within a specific range
of temperatures, provide enough genetic material to be sequenced, and align with
known MPXV sequences.
dertake phylogenetic analysis of the samples of African rope squirrel to confirm
onomy. Other studies (e.g. Doty et al 2017) indicate that there is a reasonable likelihood of
ptic species in your samples
Undertaking a phylogenetic analysis of the samples of African rope squirrel to confirm
taxonomy is beyond the scope of the current study, and would require considerable
additional sampling. The specimens used in the study were assigned by the museum and
field collectors and are generally morphologically distinct (certainly not perfect, but
much better than some of the giant pouch rats or small mice of Africa that were
included as examples of cryptic species). The specimens that were difficult to identify
morphologically were clearly juveniles and were assigned to genus only. We recognize
that it is possible that cryptic species are present as the taxonomy is not well resolved, a
point we now explicitly address in the Discussion (Lines 393-398). While this would be a
worthwhile addition to undertake, we no longer have the extraction volumes to do so
for some of the samples (see below). However, we list the specimens accession numbers
from each museum to facilitate follow-up studies.
mments to the Author(s)
eree #1
Ghosts of infections past: …”, Tiee et al. use RT-PCR and sanger sequencing to screen
seum collections of Funisciurus squirrels from Central and Western Africa for evidence of
nkeypox virus infection. The manuscript is well written, the analysis is sound and the results
tribute substantially to our understanding of the ecology of this important virus. However,
re are several minor issues that need to be addressed before the manuscript will be ready for
lication:
I don’t think that this manuscript has really looked at “host community dynamics”. This
phrase should probably be cut from the title.
Agreed, we have changed the title to exclude this phrase: the title of the
manuscript is now “Ghosts of infections past: Using archival samples to
understand a century of monkeypox virus prevalence among host communities
across space and time”
The use of the term “host” throughout the manuscript is a bit vague and confusing. For
example on Lines 44-45 “Of these, more than half infect multiple animal hosts and
reservoirs.” What is the distinction being drawn between hosts and reservoirs? And on
Lines 47-48, “their relative roles in transmitting disease within host communities and into
human populations.” Are humans not considered a host? Please clearly define “host”,
“reservoir”, “multi-host community” and how humans fit into this framework. And make
sure that these terms are used consistently throughout the manuscript.
For these multi-host pathogens, it is important to differentiate between reservoir
host species that enable persistence of the pathogen within a community as
opposed to incidental hosts that do not play roles in disease maintenance. Haydon
et al (Haydon DT, Cleaveland S, Taylor LH, Laurenson MK. Identifying
reservoirs of infection: A conceptual and practical challenge. Emerg Infect Dis.
2002;8(12):1468–73) defines reservoirs within multi-host communities as “one or
more epidemiologically connected populations or environments in which the
pathogen can be permanently maintained and from which infection is transmitted
to the defined target population.” In our study, our target population is human
populations (also incidental hosts for MPXV) and our reservoir hosts may include
these communities of Funisciurus, however certain species may contribute more to
maintaining the disease within host communities than others. Throughout the
revised manuscript, we have been more exact in our wording to avoid these
discrepancies and a better clarifying definition has been added (Lines 47-53).
Please clarify what the presence of MPXV DNA within the skin actually means. Does this
signify an acute infection at the time of death? Or is the virus persistent within squirrel
hosts? What is known about MPXV infection in these squirrels? Does it cause disease?
Death?
It is unclear what the presence of viral DNA in the skin actually means as little is
understood about how long viral DNA persists in the skin after MPXV infection or
with the resolution of skin lesions. This could be indicative of active infections or a
measure of infection in the past. These details about what is known about
monkeypox infections in squirrels have been added (Lines 105-109).
Within the results, please summarize the level of genetic diversity observed within the
MPXV partial genome sequences obtained from Sanger sequencing. I understand the
region is quite small and therefore unlikely to be useful for phylogenetic analysis, but
since sequences were obtained, a brief mention of the level of genetic diversity would be
appropriate.
Although we were able to sequence two different strains of monkeypox virus
(West African and Congo Basin) using two amplicons per positive sample, there is
only a single polymorphism in each of these amplicons. A single SNP change in the
G2R_G amplicon and a 3-base pair deletion in the G2R_WA amplicon were
observed (described in Lines 173-175), which did not allow for meaningful genetic
diversity data to be reported. The impetus for this study was to detect any
monkeypox within these samples, so our primer sets and amplicons were
purposefully made to be amplify with any strain of the virus present. Now that it is
clear that virus can persist in these samples, a follow-up study will target strain-
specific differences in a larger sample population.
In figures 1 and 2, a separate color, outside of the scheme currently in use (perhaps grey),
should be used to highlight regions where zero positive specimens were detected. By
utilizing the range 0-0.20, it is impossible to distinguish regions with low abundance from
regions without the virus. Please also provide a legend for the size of circles.
This is an important distinction, and we have altered the figures according to this
suggestion.
In several places throughout the manuscript (e.g., Lines 32, 77, 285), it is stated that the
presence of MPXV in samples from >100 years ago provides support for the idea that
historic pox-like outbreaks may actually have resulted from MPXV rather than small pox.
However, there is insufficient context provided for the reader to evaluate the validity or
importance of this claim. Were these outbreaks originally assumed to be small pox
outbreaks? Why? Did these outbreaks occur in the same regions investigated in this study?
Was MPXV thought to have emerged more recently? Please clarify these points.
The first recognized case of MPXV occurred in 1958, and some scientists have
alluded to the idea that previous outbreaks among non-human primates and
humans may have actually been MPXV instead of smallpox as originally thought.
Our study provides evidence that MPXV was circulating in host species prior to
the first recognized case, extending the time period for which MPXV could have
been found in incidental hosts. We have edited this wording accordingly
throughout the manuscript (Lines 31-34, 83-85).
Lines 33-36: Reword to clarify meaning. The “two new potential host species” are among
the five mentioned in the previous sentence, but this is not clear from the phrasing.
Reworded for clarity: “MPX viral DNA was found in 93 of 1038 (9.0%) specimens
from five Funisciurus species (F. anerythrus, F. carruthersi, F. congicus, F.
lemniscatus, and F. pyrropus), of which F. carruthersi and pyrropus had not
previously been identified as potential MPXV hosts” (Lines 34-37).
Line 43: “animal hosts” should be “non-human animal hosts”
Changed
Line 45: “ebola” should be “Ebola virus disease”
Changed
Line 54: “phylogenetic methods” should probably be “phylogenetic analysis”
Changed.
Line 54: Please clarify what is meant by “intervention studies”
We now provide descriptions of such studies (Lines 62-63): “intervention studies
such as ring-fencing, culling, or vector control measures.”
Lines 52-55: “These techniques often use recently collected samples that are limited in
spatial and temporal scope…” I think it is misguided to focus on “techniques” to make the
argument for the importance of historical samples. Several of these techniques, including
phylogenetic analysis and epidemiology, are not inherently limited to using recently
collected samples, and they’re certainly not limited to using samples that are spatially
restricted. This section should be rephrased. I would recommend focusing on the power of
museum collections to expand sampling breadth through space and time.
True, we have clarified the discussion of the power of museum specimens (Lines
63-65): “Archival samples and ancient DNA expand on these techniques by
increasing the spatial and temporal scope of studies while also providing samples
for multiple host species”
Line 60: “lyme disease” should be “Borrelia burgdorferi”
Changed.
Line 62: What are the “assumptions inherent to these methods” and how did you control
for them? This has not been fully elaborated within the manuscript.
Examples of these assumptions have been listed and include sampling bias or the
effects of specimen preparation and preservation on DNA quality and
amplification (Lines 68-72). One way in which we attempted to control for these
assumptions was to include variables within our models that accounted for
differences in sampling effort (exposure variable) DNA quality metrics such as
DNA concentration, and museum of collection (Lines 205-212, 226-229).
Line 70: Infection of what?
In wild passerine birds, fixed.
Line 81: “have been implicated as primary hosts” – based on what type of evidence?
Serology and viral DNA evidence, fixed.
Line 86: Clarify what you mean by “a better understanding”
By a “better understanding” we mean learning more about the prevalence of
MPXV among various host species and how MPXV prevalence level interfaces
with the role that each species plays in disease maintenance and transmission into
human populations (Lines 94-98).
Lines 139-140: Specify whether you performed the species identifications or whether
these had already been assigned during accession to the museum collection.
We used tags and cross-checked with museum records, no identifications were
made during collection. We inserted this text (Lines 131-132).
Line 154: Please clarify whether these two assays target the same or different regions of
the TNF gene.
These two assays target different regions of the TNF gene, this has been clarified
(Line 171-172).
Line 168: How was the “melting range” determined?
The phrase “melting range” has been clarified. This should be “average melting
temperature.” The average melting temperatures of our samples were determined
by analysis of the melt curves of samples and confirmed by comparison to the
melting temperatures of serial dilutions of our positive controls. The range of
temperatures was quite small, so any melting temperatures 0.5 degrees C outside
the average melting temperature for each amplicon were more than two standard
deviations from the mean and considered non-specific amplification (Lines 187-
189).
Lines 175-176: Please specify, on average, how many replicates provided sequence from
each positive sample.
Specified: “On average, each positive sample had 1.5 positive sequences (from two
amplicons with four replicates), with 20.7% with two positive sequences, 2.2%
with three positive sequences, and 7.6% with four positive sequences” (Lines 196-
198).
Please add to the results a sentence indicating, at least in relative terms, the number of
samples tested for each squirrel species (i.e., some text to go along with the numbers in
Table 1).
Added (Lines 247-249): “The prevalence of MPXV was 12% (45/362) for F.
anerythrus, 2.8% (3/109) for F. carruthersi, 13% (32/239) for F. congicus, 6.1%
(5/82) for F. lemniscatus, and 4% (8/201) for F. pyrropus.”
It is worth pointing out that MPXV was detected in at least one animal for all species with
>18 samples tested. Therefore, with further testing, additional potential host species may
be identified.
Great observation, we added this interesting bit in (Lines 339-341).
Line 291: Reword - currently states that “Museum studies…suffer from…contamination
prevention”
This has been reworded to describe some of the limitations of museum studies:
“Additionally, the process of field collection to museum storage often does not
follow precautions for avoiding contamination between specimens; instruments
used in preparation are not sterilized between specimens and specimens are often
in close contact to others within museum storage cabinets. Given the lack of
genetic diversity in the amplicons chosen for this study, it is difficult to identify
potential contamination events” (Lines 315-319).
Lines 301-303: What about differences in susceptibility of the different species? Or the
duration of infection? Or peak viral titers? There are many non-behavioral/ecological
differences between species that could explain these patterns.
Agreed, we now include these other differences that might account for the
prevalence differences including susceptibility of different species, viral titer
levels, duration of infection, and tissue tropism for viral replication (Lines 337-
339).
Line 303: “contact rates” should be “transmission rates”?
Yes, changed.
Lines 303-307: In this context, what is known about F. congicus?
F. congicus is quite social and can live in groups of up to four individuals (Lines
331-332).
“Role of host community in MPXV transmission”: How well have host species population
genetics in these regions been studied? Is it possible that cryptic host species (or low
levels of migration) between regions could also play a role in virus distribution?
Certainly possibilities, but our data is probably not well-suited to address the idea
of cryptic species. However, we used identified, referenced specimens from each
museum that will permit follow-up morphological and phylogenetic studies to be
performed at a later date, funding permitting. We have added these excellent
points in this section (Lines 393-398).
Line 334: “in other species” should be “to other species”?
Changed.
Line 336: “limited in Angola where host density is low”, is this known or hypothetical?
Please clarify.
This is hypothetical based on the decreased number of species that coexist in
Angola vs. the DRC. Only F. congicus and pyrropus coexist in Angola. This point
has been clarified (Lines 369-371).
Lines 338-339: “low sampling and specimen collection outside of the range of
anerythrus”. Again, is this an observed trend or hypothetical?
This is an observed trend: our sample collection locations seem biased towards
areas that are part of anerythrus’ range and has low sampling in areas that
anerythrus is not distributed. This has been clarified in the manuscript (Line 373).
Line 360: What is meant by “all forest habitats”?
This has been changed to be “forest habitats”.
Line 371: “relative differences” should be “relative differences in MPXV prevalence”
Changed.
Figure 4 legend, Line 594: “red” should be “black”
Yes! Thanks for the catch! Fixed.
Figure 3: As part of the figure, please include either the total number of samples or the
total number of positive samples for each species.
The figure has been changed to include the total number of samples.
eree #2
manuscript entitled: “Ghosts of infectious past: Using archival samples to understand a
tury of host community dynamics and spatio-temporal prevalence of monkeypox virus” by
e et al. presents the results of their research on the potential hosts of monkeypox virus. In
ticular, they obtained skin samples from squirrels of the Genus Funisciurus from scientific
seum specimens to test them for the presence of monkeypox virus DNA. Identifying the
ervoir of this virus is a very relevant question that could lead to better interventions and
vention of the disease in endemic areas. The approach presented here is innovative and has
potential to shed some light on the poorly known natural history of Monkeypox virus.
wever, I would like to point out some aspects that I consider relevant to the interpretation of
results and, thus, addressing these issues would improve the quality of the manuscript.
measures taken to prevent contamination of samples are sufficient to ensure authenticity of
itives from their collection in the museum to processing in the laboratory; although it is
ossible for authors to control, authors should take into account the possibility of
tamination of museum specimens during collection, preparation, preservation and storage.
ld biologists (especially decades ago) do not normally take precautions necessary for virology
dies; thus, it is very likely that skins of animals were prepared without following any
cautions to avoid contamination. For example, using the same instruments for different
mals without sterilizing them or without washing hands or changing gloves between animals;
ping animals in the same confined area/container (alive or dead) for some time before
cessing them, which will conduct to contamination or increased exposure of these animals to
virus (if one of them is infected); etc. Additionally, once specimens arrive to museums they
put in drawers with specimens (normally the same or sister species, but also very distant
cies) from the same or other geographic area; it is also possible that the specimens have been
ved/manipulated several times over the decades and had had contact with several other
cimens, increasing the chance of contamination. Potential effects of this contamination could
seen as high prevalence in samples collected in the same locality at the same time; but
tamination between unrelated specimens is also possible (as explained above) and harder to
ntify, but samples from the same Museum could be more likely to contaminate each other.
uld it be possible to examine the sequences of the positive samples and identify potential
tamination events? If individual infections can be confirmed by ruling-out contamination,
valence can be more accurately calculated.
These are great points and ones that we struggled with in our analyses. The short
answer is that despite our efforts to control contamination post-sampling, it is much
more difficult to know what happened to individuals prior to our sampling of them.
One possibility you correctly identify is the idea that samples from the same museum
may show higher prevalence or positives if contamination is an issue. We did observe a
museum-effect in our analyses, with RMCA (Belgium) samples having a much higher
positive count than those samples from the AMCA (American) museum. However,
outside of contamination issues, myriad other explanations could be given for this
result, including better sample preparation/storage, higher quality of DNA extracted, or
simply collection bias (one or a few trips performed in monkeypox hotspots). With only
two museums to compare, it is difficult to attribute this difference to contamination
alone.
Although we did produce sequences for many of our positives (see above), we cannot,
unfortunately, eliminate the possibility of contamination using these as they were
specifically designed to amplify non-variable regions of the viral DNA so as to be as
general as possible. Investigating strain diversity and distributions (suggested by
Reviewer 1 as well) is a possibility, but would require re-running the positives we
recovered with primers that are designed to specific strains. A follow-up proposal from
this work will hopefully provide the funding necessary to perform this work.
ike the Avipoxvirus studies cited by the authors, in which samples were collected from warts
idence of active infection), the skin samples analyzed in this manuscript do not correspond to
ons, making it difficult to determine if the animals were infected with the virus and positive
ults are not result of contamination. Presence of DNA is not always indicative of infection.
any of the museum specimens showed signs of infection (pox lesions)?
There certainly exists the possibility of contamination of samples prior to museum
preparation (see above). While our criteria for preventing and assuring any methods
our group performed were not contributing to contamination were appropriate, we
cannot absolutely rule this out as a possibility (a fact we mention in our Discussion). We
agree that presence of DNA is not always indicative of infection. However, these are
inherent limitations of the museum samples, which we now discuss (Lines 314-322).
None of specimens showed any signs of infection (lesions), but previous work has
suggested that this is also not a good surrogate for active infections in small mammals
(Hutson CL, Lee KN, Abel J, Carroll DS, Montgomery JM, Olson VA, et al. 2007.
Monkeypox zoonotic associations: Insights from laboratory evaluation of animals
associated with the multi-state US outbreak. Am J Trop Med Hyg.). In fact, even a
sample from a live animal that tests positive for monkeypox virus may not indicate an
active infection, as it is thought the virus can persist in mammals long after infections
are over. Unfortunately, without laboratory infections and monitoring, it becomes
difficult to quantify active infections in a population, much less from samples
representing populations that are now gone.
taxonomy of African mammals is not completely resolved, there could be misidentified
cimens and it is possible that some of them belong to undescribed species (e.g., Doty et al
7 Viruses 9(10):283; Olayemi et al 2012 165(3):700-719; Falendysz et al 2017 PLoS NTD
8): e0005809), I suggest sequencing of host DNA and phylogenetic analysis to confirm that
specimens included in the study are from the indicated species. Correct identification of
irrel species is a critical. This could confirm the authors’ observations of pairs of positive
cies in unique localities (F. anerythrus, F. congicus and F. lemniscatus) and change
valence calculations and other analyses. Calculation of prevalence between species with
per identification of the individuals could help the host community analysis (F. anerythrus
F. congicus).
There certainly exists the possibility that our sampling contains cryptic species,
however several aspects of this evidence and the methods we use suggest that our data is
unlikely to be inundated with unknown species:
1. Evidence from Doty et al. 2017 indicated that a single individual identified as F.
congicus had sequence divergence in mtDNA from all other sequenced congicus
samples. While this certainly could represent a cryptic species within the group, only 6
rope squirrels were tested here and it is unclear how much sequence diversity should be
expected in this species without more sampling. A single strange sequence here, from a
wild-caught animal, in our opinion, is simply not enough reason to question hundreds of
annexed, accessioned specimen identifications from two independent museum
collections without knowing more about the population genetics of various Funisciurus
species.
2. To that point, all samples in our collection were acquired from vouchered, identified
collections and all accession numbers are provided in the raw data files. In this sense,
our findings are future-proofed. Should someone undertake a re-analysis of African
rodent phylogenies, and likely get their samples from the same collection that we
sampled from, our results can simply be applied to those new identified species by their
corresponding accession numbers. Unfortunately, the extraction of viral DNA was a
destructive process for our samples and we no longer have DNA extracts for some of
the samples (due to the high number of replicates we ran to ensure positives).
3. The reference Olayemi et al. 2012 does indicate that the giant-pouched rat group in
Africa may contain more species than previously thought, but authors correctly
indicate that morphological characteristics are largely continuous in this species (unlike
rope squirrels whose pelage are more diagnostic) and because species identifications
were made from samples from a narrow geographic window. In the case of our study of
African rope squirrels, we don't expect either of these issues to result in incorrect
species designations.
4. The work of Falendysz et al. 2017 does not mention cryptic species, and
experimentally infected nine rope squirrels positively identified (via morphology) as F.
anerythrus. There is no mention of other rope squirrel species or any possibility of
cryptic species. In this sense, this reference supports the idea that, until a new African
mammal phylogeny is realized, identifying rope squirrels by morphological
characteristics alone and reporting on their experimental susceptibility to monkeypox
(in the Falendysz et al. work) or the prevalence of monkeypox across space and time (in
our work) is as scientifically rigorous a practice as possible.
mentioned that the primers for real time PCR were modified from the originally published
s, was performance tested to verify that sensitivity and specificity were not changed by this
dification? Can CT values or number of copies be reported?
For each of the amplicons, only one of the primers was altered significantly from that of
the previously published ones (Li Y, Zhao H, Wilkins K, Hughes C, Damon IK. Real-
time PCR assays for the specific detection of monkeypox virus West African and Congo
Basin strain DNA. J Virol Methods. 2010;169:223–7) to allow for removal of the probe.
For the G2R_G assay, the same reverse primer was used as Li et al. and a new forward
primer was designed using Primer3. For the G2R_WA assay, we used a forward primer
that was shifted only 1 bp from that used in Li et al. and designed a new reverse primer.
We did not conduct sensitivity or specificity analyses as we expected the amplification
efficacy to be similar due to the use of one of the primers published previously for each
amplicon. See supplemental materials (Lines 28-40) for more details. The CP values
have been reported to provide more information on the assays (Lines 178-180).
ures 1 and 2, add a scale for the circles to aid the interpretation of the number of specimens in
h locality.
Each of these figures has been changed.
Society Open
