Chromium oxide coatings with the potential for eliminating
the risk of chromium ion release in orthopaedic implants
A. M. Oje and A. A. Ogwu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170218.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170218
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 May 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170218.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting topic. There are some factual concerns, however, that need to be addressed.
The substrate material chosen by the authors (304 stainless steel) for their research investigation is
not presently used for orthopaedic implants – the authors should refer to the highly cited review
by Dearnley, (1999) - instead a high nitrogen stainless steel - Orton 90 is usual. Neither is 316L
(mentioned briefly) in the Introduction (p.3). The background to the subject given by the authors
(pp.3 & 4) omits mention of the well established thermally oxidized zirconium alloy (Zr-2.5Nb)
patented in the 1990s and used in substantial numbers in the US until now. Hence, their review
is not ‘state-of the-art’. The authors claim (paper title and conclusions, p.15) their coating
material is ‘chromium oxide’ yet they have not provided XRD or compositional analyses to back
up this claim. Their coating method (magnetron sputtering) is likely to have resulted in an
amorphous coating material of unknown composition. Whilst the authors refer to the work of
Gilbert’s group (in the US) – authors’ ref. 9. – to substantiate their methodology & results, this is
an invalid comparison as the latter workers produced their coatings via plasma spraying, which
results in crystalline chromium oxide. Very different to the (likely) amorphous sputter coatings
investigated by Oje & Ogwu. The authors have also failed to microscopically elucidate the
character of the corrosive attack of their ‘chromium oxide’ coated 304 test-pieces. It should be
relatively simple to do this using light optical and SEM techniques – this would provide
unequivocal evidence of the role of coating defects and/or the prevalence of pitting of the
substrate beneath the coating. Such effects have been well documented in other coated stainless
steel systems as revealed, for example by Dearnley, P. A. and Aldrich-Smith, G. (2004).
REFERENCES
Dearnley, P. A. (1999), ‘A review of metallic, ceramic and surface-treated metals used for bearing
surfaces in human joint replacements’, Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 213 (H), 107–135.
Dearnley, P. A. and Aldrich-Smith, G. (2004), ‘Corrosion-wear mechanisms of hard coated 316L
stainless steels’, Wear 256, 491–499.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Raul Gago)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Ogwu et al. presents an interesting paper dealing with the corrosion properties of chromium
oxide coatings deposited on steel substrates. They observe a clear improvement in the corrosion
resistance of the coated substrates with respect to bare ones. Moreover, there is negligible release
of Cr ions during the immersion tests. These findings support the eventual viability of such
coated system for the improvement of orthopaedic implants.
I find that the corrosion, electrical and adhesion properties of the film-substrate system are well
discussed and supported. However, I find little information or discussion related to a correlation
between the film properties, deposition conditions and final performance. In this sense, there are
no cited references to previous works dealing with chromium oxide deposition by magnetron
sputtering (see references below). Indeed, depending on the preparation method and conditions,
films with Cr2O3, CrO2 or CrO3 (single or mixed) structures may be achieved. For example,
during magnetron sputtering, increasing the O2 partial pressure will result in an increase of
higher-valence Cr ions (due to the more oxidizing conditions). All these aspects should be
reinforced in the manuscript. In particular, the following points should be addressed:
First, what is the discharge type used in their magnetron system (DC, RF, pulsed-DC, …)?
The authors mainly compare films grown (on unheated substrates) at different discharge powers
and O2 contents in the gas mixture. Both parameters will have an impact on the deposition rate
and resulting film thickness (also in the film structure as discussed above). Surely, thickness will
be a crucial factor in the performance of the coated systems. This parameter is not reported or
discussed in the manuscript. It would be necessary to provide the film thickness and, ideally, test
the performance of coated systems with different deposition times.
The structure of the chromium oxide films is determined by means of Raman and FTIR. They
observe vibrations related to the Cr2O3 structure. In this case, they cannot exclude the
coexistence of other oxide phases (as mentioned, mixed phase films may be produced by
magnetron sputtering). Moreover, they use different substrates (steel or silicon) for each
characterization method. The substrate can also influence the final structural properties of the
coatings. Therefore, further analysis of the bonding structure (e.g., XPS, XRD) would provide
more solid conclusions about the final properties.
Basically, all films analysed behave similarly and have a good corrosion resistance. Films grown
at low temperature, as in this case, are normally amorphous and display a compact structure. The
crystal structure of the films will also have an impact on the properties. Probably, grain
(columnar) growth will increase the presence of voids and the corrosion properties will be
lessened. Therefore, the similar corrosion behaviour could be related to the film compactness. In
this line, morphological characterization by AFM or SEM would provide relevant information in
this respect.
Finally, as mentioned above, higher oxidizing conditions (O2 content) result in higher valence
states and even the formation of CrVI. CrO3 is soluble in water and, hence, it will be easily
release during the electrochemical tests. This fact could be related to the higher Cr release from
the coatings grown at higher O2 contents, as shown in Figure 8. Again, this fact points out the
need of deeper analysis of the bonding structure of the films.
Some additional/minor comments:
Page 1, line 28. The authors report on the properties of CoCrMo(Ti) alloys but they do not
provide any reference. Please, add.
4
Page 1, line 46. Please, add the corresponding references for each coating material and specify
which ones are already in clinical use.
Pages 4-6. Sections 2 and 3 dealing with the theoretical background for the analysis of the plastic
deformation or the electrical analysis are more appropriate for a text book and can be omitted. It
would be enough displaying the equations used for the analysis and a reference to the
corresponding source.
Page 8, coating adhesion: The term “dog-bone samples” is used for the substrate straining tests. I
assume that they refer to a substrate with broader ends used to fixed the substrate and strain it.
What is the actual dimension of the substrate? How the substrate thickness would affect this
measurement? Maybe this part can be described in a more precise way.
Page 8, coating adhesion: The authors indicate that they have analysed hundreds of cracks for
each measurement. Has this been done by visual inspection or by means of image processing
software?
Figure 1: What is the O2 flow rate used for these films?
Page 14, line 20: Should it read DLC/Si-DLC instead of DL/Si-DLC?
REFERENCES:
Barshilia et al. Appl. Surf. Sci. 255 (2008) 2925
Contoux et al.Thin Solid Films 292 (1997) 75
Gago et al. J. Alloys Comp. 672 (2016) 529
Hones et al. Surf. Coat. Technol. 120-121 (1999) 277
Pang et al. Thin Solid Films 516 (2008) 4685
Pang et al. J. Mater. Res. 22 (2007) 3531
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170218)
05-Apr-2017
Dear Miss Ogwu,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Chromium oxide coatings with the potential for eliminating
the risk of chromium ion release in orthopaedic implants") have now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Apr-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
5
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170218
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
6
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is an interesting topic. There are some factual concerns, however, that need to be addressed.
The substrate material chosen by the authors (304 stainless steel) for their research investigation is
not presently used for orthopaedic implants – the authors should refer to the highly cited review
by Dearnley, (1999) - instead a high nitrogen stainless steel - Orton 90 is usual. Neither is 316L
(mentioned briefly) in the Introduction (p.3). The background to the subject given by the authors
(pp.3 & 4) omits mention of the well established thermally oxidized zirconium alloy (Zr-2.5Nb)
patented in the 1990s and used in substantial numbers in the US until now. Hence, their review
is not ‘state-of the-art’. The authors claim (paper title and conclusions, p.15) their coating
material is ‘chromium oxide’ yet they have not provided XRD or compositional analyses to back
up this claim. Their coating method (magnetron sputtering) is likely to have resulted in an
amorphous coating material of unknown composition. Whilst the authors refer to the work of
Gilbert’s group (in the US) – authors’ ref. 9. – to substantiate their methodology & results, this is
an invalid comparison as the latter workers produced their coatings via plasma spraying, which
results in crystalline chromium oxide. Very different to the (likely) amorphous sputter coatings
investigated by Oje & Ogwu. The authors have also failed to microscopically elucidate the
character of the corrosive attack of their ‘chromium oxide’ coated 304 test-pieces. It should be
relatively simple to do this using light optical and SEM techniques – this would provide
unequivocal evidence of the role of coating defects and/or the prevalence of pitting of the
substrate beneath the coating. Such effects have been well documented in other coated stainless
steel systems as revealed, for example by Dearnley, P. A. and Aldrich-Smith, G. (2004).
REFERENCES
Dearnley, P. A. (1999), ‘A review of metallic, ceramic and surface-treated metals used for bearing
surfaces in human joint replacements’, Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 213 (H), 107–135.
Dearnley, P. A. and Aldrich-Smith, G. (2004), ‘Corrosion-wear mechanisms of hard coated 316L
stainless steels’, Wear 256, 491–499.
7
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Ogwu et al. presents an interesting paper dealing with the corrosion properties of chromium
oxide coatings deposited on steel substrates. They observe a clear improvement in the corrosion
resistance of the coated substrates with respect to bare ones. Moreover, there is negligible release
of Cr ions during the immersion tests. These findings support the eventual viability of such
coated system for the improvement of orthopaedic implants.
I find that the corrosion, electrical and adhesion properties of the film-substrate system are well
discussed and supported. However, I find little information or discussion related to a correlation
between the film properties, deposition conditions and final performance. In this sense, there are
no cited references to previous works dealing with chromium oxide deposition by magnetron
sputtering (see references below). Indeed, depending on the preparation method and conditions,
films with Cr2O3, CrO2 or CrO3 (single or mixed) structures may be achieved. For example,
during magnetron sputtering, increasing the O2 partial pressure will result in an increase of
higher-valence Cr ions (due to the more oxidizing conditions). All these aspects should be
reinforced in the manuscript. In particular, the following points should be addressed:
First, what is the discharge type used in their magnetron system (DC, RF, pulsed-DC, …)?
The authors mainly compare films grown (on unheated substrates) at different discharge powers
and O2 contents in the gas mixture. Both parameters will have an impact on the deposition rate
and resulting film thickness (also in the film structure as discussed above). Surely, thickness will
be a crucial factor in the performance of the coated systems. This parameter is not reported or
discussed in the manuscript. It would be necessary to provide the film thickness and, ideally, test
the performance of coated systems with different deposition times.
The structure of the chromium oxide films is determined by means of Raman and FTIR. They
observe vibrations related to the Cr2O3 structure. In this case, they cannot exclude the
coexistence of other oxide phases (as mentioned, mixed phase films may be produced by
magnetron sputtering). Moreover, they use different substrates (steel or silicon) for each
characterization method. The substrate can also influence the final structural properties of the
coatings. Therefore, further analysis of the bonding structure (e.g., XPS, XRD) would provide
more solid conclusions about the final properties.
Basically, all films analysed behave similarly and have a good corrosion resistance. Films grown
at low temperature, as in this case, are normally amorphous and display a compact structure. The
crystal structure of the films will also have an impact on the properties. Probably, grain
(columnar) growth will increase the presence of voids and the corrosion properties will be
lessened. Therefore, the similar corrosion behaviour could be related to the film compactness. In
this line, morphological characterization by AFM or SEM would provide relevant information in
this respect.
Finally, as mentioned above, higher oxidizing conditions (O2 content) result in higher valence
states and even the formation of CrVI. CrO3 is soluble in water and, hence, it will be easily
release during the electrochemical tests. This fact could be related to the higher Cr release from
the coatings grown at higher O2 contents, as shown in Figure 8. Again, this fact points out the
need of deeper analysis of the bonding structure of the films.
Some additional/minor comments:
Page 1, line 28. The authors report on the properties of CoCrMo(Ti) alloys but they do not
provide any reference. Please, add.
8
Page 1, line 46. Please, add the corresponding references for each coating material and specify
which ones are already in clinical use.
Pages 4-6. Sections 2 and 3 dealing with the theoretical background for the analysis of the plastic
deformation or the electrical analysis are more appropriate for a text book and can be omitted. It
would be enough displaying the equations used for the analysis and a reference to the
corresponding source.
Page 8, coating adhesion: The term “dog-bone samples” is used for the substrate straining tests. I
assume that they refer to a substrate with broader ends used to fixed the substrate and strain it.
What is the actual dimension of the substrate? How the substrate thickness would affect this
measurement? Maybe this part can be described in a more precise way.
Page 8, coating adhesion: The authors indicate that they have analysed hundreds of cracks for
each measurement. Has this been done by visual inspection or by means of image processing
software?
Figure 1: What is the O2 flow rate used for these films?
Page 14, line 20: Should it read DLC/Si-DLC instead of DL/Si-DLC?
REFERENCES:
Barshilia et al. Appl. Surf. Sci. 255 (2008) 2925
Contoux et al.Thin Solid Films 292 (1997) 75
Gago et al. J. Alloys Comp. 672 (2016) 529
Hones et al. Surf. Coat. Technol. 120-121 (1999) 277
Pang et al. Thin Solid Films 516 (2008) 4685
Pang et al. J. Mater. Res. 22 (2007) 3531
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170218)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170218.R1)
07-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Ogwu,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Chromium oxide coatings with the
potential for eliminating the risk of chromium ion release in orthopaedic implants" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
9
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos
and enter your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title
listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create
a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a
revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the
comments made by the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in
"Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to document how you have
responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In order
to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as
possible in your response.
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science openscience@royalsociety.org
School of Engineering
and Computing
University of the
West of Scotland
High Street, Paisley, PA1 2BE
Scotland,
United Kingdom
8 May 2017
The Editor
Royal Society Open Science
The Royal Society
U.K.
Dear Editor,
Re: (Response to the comments by the reviewers)
We would like to thank the reviewers for the helpful comments. The reviewers
have requested for both clarifications and actions to be taken on the
submitted manuscript. The manuscript has been revised and all the actions
suggested by the reviewers have been highlighted in bold in the revised
manuscript now submitted. The details of the clarifications and actions are
now highlighted below.
Yours faithfully,
Professor Abraham Ogwu
Comments to Author:
Reviewer 1
Comments to the Author(s) by reviewer 1.
label_comment_5
This is an interesting topic. There are some factual concerns, however, that
need to be addressed.
1) The substrate material chosen by the authors (304 stainless steel) for
their research investigation is not presently used for orthopaedic
implants – the authors should refer to the highly cited review by
Dearnley, (1999) - instead a high nitrogen stainless steel - Orton 90 is
usual. Neither is 316L (mentioned briefly) in the Introduction (p.3).
Response : We note the comment of the reviewer about 304 stainless steel,
as a substrate material for orthopaedic and medical implants, but wish to
confirm that it is still a favoured candidate substrate for implants with
coatings applied on its surface to eliminate pitting as discussed in a recent
(2017) paper by Huang et al, see the reference below,
i) Huang et al, Investigation of the tribological and biomechanical
properties of CrAlTiN and CrN/NbN coatings on SST 304, Ceramics
International, 43, 2017, 7992-8003.
<U+F0B7> As stated by Huang et al, whilst the possibility of pitting by 304 stainless
steel can be reduced to neglible levels by coating with the right coating
material, as confirmed in our current manuscript, high nitrogen 3016L
and other highly alloyed steels with higher pitting resistance, pose the
risk of releasing carcinogens into the body especially when cobalt and
some other alloys are present. However for the ease of reference, Huang
et al’s paper is now the new reference [3] in our revised manuscript. The
paper mentioned by the reviewer, Dearnley, P. A. (1999), ‘A review of
metallic, ceramic and surface-treated metals used for bearing surfaces in
human joint replacements’, Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 213 (H), 107–135, is
now included as reference [7] in the revised manuscript to give a
perspective of evolving developments in the subject over time. Both
references are highlighted in the reference section of the revised
manuscript.
2) The background to the subject given by the authors (pp.3 & 4) omits
mention of the well-established thermally oxidized zirconium alloy (Zr-
2.5Nb) patented in the 1990s and used in substantial numbers in the
US until now. Hence, their review is not ‘state-of the-art’. The
authors claim (paper title and conclusions, p.15) their coating material
is ‘chromium oxide’ yet they have not provided XRD or compositional
analyses to back up this claim.
Response (a): Zirconium alloy has now been mentioned in the
background as one of the implant materials, on page 3, line 6 of the
revised manuscript. Response (b): We have added a section for X-ray
diffraction (XRD) analysis (page 11 of the revised manuscript) which
suggests that the films prepared at various oxygen flow rates are
amorphous, see figure 5 for the XRD scans. A discussion on X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis for the chromium oxide
coating has been added on page 10 of the revised manuscript (see figure
3a, b and c for the XPS spectrum) which indicates that the prepared film
are <U+0001D45D><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452><U+0001D451><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45A><U+0001D456><U+0001D45B><U+0001D44E><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461><U+0001D459><U+0001D466> <U+0001D436><U+0001D45F>2 <U+0001D442>3.
3) Their coating method (magnetron sputtering) is likely to have resulted
in an amorphous coating material of unknown composition. Whilst the
authors refer to the work of Gilbert’s group (in the US) – authors’ ref.
9. – to substantiate their methodology & results, this is an invalid
comparison as the latter workers produced their coatings via plasma
spraying, which results in crystalline chromium oxide. Very different to
the (likely) amorphous sputter coatings investigated by Oje & Ogwu.
Response: One of the aims of this manuscript is to show the
improvement achieved by using magnetron sputtering to prepare
amorphous coatings with improved corrosion , since they don’t have
grain boundaries, compared to other methods like those stated above
that produce coatings with grain boundaries and are more prone to
corrosion. We confirmed the amorphous nature of our coatings with
XRD analysis as stated above and the composition of the films was
determined with XPS analysis as stated above.
4) The authors have also failed to microscopically elucidate the character
of the corrosive attack of their ‘chromium oxide’ coated 304 test-
pieces. It should be relatively simple to do this using light optical and
SEM techniques – this would provide unequivocal evidence of the role
of coating defects and/or the prevalence of pitting of the substrate
beneath the coating. Such effects have been well documented in other
coated stainless steel systems as revealed, for example by Dearnley, P.
A. and Aldrich-Smith, G. (2004).
Response: A scanning electron microscope (SEM image) in shown (in
figure 7 of the revised manuscript) of the chromium oxide coated samples
after the corrosion test, which shows no evidence of pitting corrosion
under the conditions indicated in figure 7.
Authors comments: We would like to thank the reviewer for the very
helpful comments which we believe has helped to further improve the
quality of our manuscript
References suggested by Reviewer 1
<U+F0B7> Dearnley, P. A. (1999), ‘A review of metallic, ceramic and surface-
treated metals used for bearing surfaces in human joint replacements’,
Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 213 (H), 107–135.
<U+F0B7> Dearnley, P. A. and Aldrich-Smith, G. (2004), ‘Corrosion-wear
mechanisms of hard coated 316L stainless steels’, Wear 256, 491–499.
Reviewer 2
Comments to the Authors by reviewer 2
label_comment_6
Ogwu et al. presents an interesting paper dealing with the corrosion
properties of chromium oxide coatings deposited on steel substrates. They
observe a clear improvement in the corrosion resistance of the coated
substrates with respect to bare ones. Moreover, there is negligible release of
Cr ions during the immersion tests. These findings support the eventual
viability of such coated system for the improvement of orthopaedic implants.
I find that the corrosion, electrical and adhesion properties of the film-
substrate system are well discussed and supported.
1) However, I find little information or discussion related to a
correlation between the film properties, deposition conditions and
final performance. In this sense, there are no cited references to
previous works dealing with chromium oxide deposition by
magnetron sputtering (see references below). Indeed, depending on
the preparation method and conditions, films with Cr2O3, CrO2 or
CrO3 (single or mixed) structures may be achieved. For example,
during magnetron sputtering, increasing the O2 partial pressure will
result in an increase of higher-valence Cr ions (due to the more
oxidizing conditions). All these aspects should be reinforced in the
manuscript.
Response (a): We have included additional references dealing with
chromium oxide coatings prepared by magnetron sputtering on page 4
of the revised manuscript, as references [19,26,27] and chromium oxide
coatings deposited by other techniques as reference [20-25], highlighted
in the revised manuscript and in the reference section of the revised
manuscript.
Response (b): A discussion of the scanning electron microscope (SEM)
images of the films has been added on page 11 of the revised manuscript
which shows the effect of the oxygen flow rates used during the
deposition on the microstructure of the prepared films (see figure 4 for
the SEM images). The SEM images revealed that films prepared at the
lower oxygen flow rates are denser compared to the ones prepared at
higher oxygen flow rates. The resulting effect of the microstructure on
corrosion performance of these films is highlighted under the
potentiodynamic polarisation test (see page 11 and 12) and Mott-
Schottky analysis (page 13 and 14) of the revised manuscript.
2) First, what is the discharge type used in their magnetron system
(DC, RF, pulsed-DC,)?
Response: RF magnetron sputtering system was used as stated on page
2 and 7 of our revised manuscript.
3) The authors mainly compare films grown (on unheated substrates)
at different discharge powers and O2 contents in the gas mixture.
Both parameters will have an impact on the deposition rate and
resulting film thickness (also in the film structure as discussed
above). Surely, thickness will be a crucial factor in the performance
of the coated systems. This parameter is not reported or discussed
in the manuscript. It would be necessary to provide the film
thickness and, ideally, test the performance of coated systems with
different deposition times.
Response: Chromium oxide coatings with thickness between 210-220nm
(page 8 of the revised manuscript) were used for our corrosion tests. The
deposition time for the coatings was varied beyond 120 minutes in some
cases to achieve the same thickness for all the coatings we tested, to
enable a consistent comparison of the corrosion performance of the
coated samples to be conducted. The effect of oxygen flow rates on the
films structures and corrosion performance of the films are discussed on
page 11 and 12 of the manuscripts and now highlighted. The effect of
oxygen flow rate and corresponding film structure on the performance
of coatings are further highlighted in the Mott-schottky analysis where
the films prepared at the lowest oxygen flow rate had lowest defect
density , now highlighted, see page 13 and 14 of the revised manuscript.
4) The structure of the chromium oxide films is determined by means
of Raman and FTIR. They observe vibrations related to the Cr2O3
structure. In this case, they cannot exclude the coexistence of other
oxide phases (as mentioned, mixed phase films may be produced by
magnetron sputtering). Moreover, they use different substrates
(steel or silicon) for each characterization method. The substrate
can also influence the final structural properties of the coatings.
Therefore, further analysis of the bonding structure (e.g., XPS, XRD)
would provide more solid conclusions about the final properties.
Finally, as mentioned above, higher oxidizing conditions (O2
content) result in higher valence states and even the formation of
CrVI. CrO3 is soluble in water and, hence, it will be easily release
during the electrochemical tests. This fact could be related to the
higher Cr release from the coatings grown at higher O2 contents, as
shown in Figure 8. Again, this fact points out the need of deeper
analysis of the bonding structure of the films.
Response: We have added a section for X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis
(page 11 of the revised manuscript) which suggests that the films
prepared at various oxygen flow rates are amorphous, see figure 5 for the
XRD scans. A discussion on X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
analysis for the chromium oxide coating has been added on page 10 of
the revised manuscript (see figure 3a, b and c for the XPS spectrum) which
indicates that the prepared film are <U+0001D45D><U+0001D45F><U+0001D452><U+0001D451><U+0001D45C><U+0001D45A><U+0001D456><U+0001D45B><U+0001D44E><U+0001D45B><U+0001D461><U+0001D459><U+0001D466> <U+0001D436><U+0001D45F>2 <U+0001D442>3.
5) Basically, all films analysed behave similarly and have a good
corrosion resistance. Films grown at low temperature, as in this
case, are normally amorphous and display a compact structure. The
crystal structure of the films will also have an impact on the
properties. Probably, grain (columnar) growth will increase the
presence of voids and the corrosion properties will be lessened.
Therefore, the similar corrosion behaviour could be related to the
film compactness. In this line, morphological characterization by
AFM or SEM would provide relevant information in this respect.
Response: We confirmed the amorphous nature of our coatings with
XRD analysis and SEM images; see figure 4 and this should lead to an
improvement in the corrosion resistance of the coatings, since
amorphous coatings lack the grain boundaries that act as pathways for
electrolyte/ fluid penetration during corrosion
Some additional/minor comments:
6) Page 1, line 28. The authors report on the properties of CoCrMo (Ti)
alloys but they do not provide any reference. Please add
Response: References have been added to CoCrMo alloy on page 3 of
the revised manuscript as reference [5-7] and are highlighted in this
manuscript and in the reference section.
7) Page 1, line 46, add the corresponding reference for each coating
material and specify which ones are already in clinical use.
Response: We have added addition references [8-14] for each of the
coating materials mentioned on page 3 and the ones in clinical use
specified with references [13,14], they are all highlighted in the revised
manuscript and in the reference section of the revised manuscript.
8) Pages 4-6. Sections 2 and 3 dealing with the theoretical background
for the analysis of the plastic deformation or the electrical analysis
are more appropriate for a text book and can be omitted. It would
be enough displaying the equations used for the analysis and a
reference to the corresponding source.
Response: The equations summarise the rigorous foundation of the
techniques used and since the substrate straining technique is a
relatively newly developed approach, a short summary of the rigorous
basis of the method, is considered to be both necessary and
appropriate, especially for a Royal society journal article. Hence we will
prefer to retain the few under-pinning equations in the manuscript.
9) Page 8, coating adhesion: The term “dog-bone samples” is used for
the substrate straining tests. I assume that they refer to a substrate
with broader ends used to fix the substrate and strain it. What is the
actual dimension of the substrate? How the substrate thickness
would affect this measurement? Maybe this part can be described
in a more precise way. Page 8, coating adhesion: The authors
indicate that they have analysed hundreds of cracks for each
measurement. Has this been done by visual inspection or by means
of image processing software?
Response: Each tensile substrate was machined into a tensile ‘dog bone’
shape before coating and measured 120 x 20 mm with a thickness of
1mm.We also mentioned in the manuscript that the gauge sections of
the coated sample after testing was examined with a Hitachi S-4100
model scanning electron microscope(SEM). A software package attached
to the SEM was used to measure the crack sizes on the SEM screen. The
substrate thickness does not affect the measurement as indicated in
equations 1-6, hence the additional need to retain the equations in the
manuscript. (see page 9)
10) Figure 1: What is the O2 flow rate used for these films?
Response: The Oxygen flow rate of used in figure 1 is 10sccm as shown in
the revised manuscript.
11) Page 14, line 20 of the submitted manuscript: Should it read
DLC/Si-DLC instead of DL/Si-DLC?
Response: This has now been corrected as DLC/Si-DLC as suggested by
the reviewer in the revised manuscript.
Authors comments: We would like to thank the reviewer for the very
helpful comments which we believe has helped to further improve
the quality of our manuscript.
References suggested by Reviewer 2.
<U+F0B7> Barshilia et al. Appl. Surf. Sci. 255 (2008) 2925
<U+F0B7> Contour et al. Thin Solid Films 292 (1997) 75
<U+F0B7> Gago et al. J. Alloys Comp. 672 (2016) 529
<U+F0B7> Hones et al. Surf. Coat. Technol. 120-121 (1999) 277
<U+F0B7> Pang et al. Thin Solid Films 516 (2008) 4685
<U+F0B7> Pang et al. J. Mater. Res. 22 (2007) 3531
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please
also ensure that your revised manuscript contains the following sections as
appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical
approval received, including the name of the committee that granted approval.
For human studies please also detail whether informed consent was obtained.
For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions, licences
and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available
either as supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent
repository. The data accessibility section should state where the article's
supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details,
where possible of where to access other relevant research materials such as
statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been
deposited in an external repository this section should list the database,
accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that have
been made publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an
external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad
(http://datadryad.org/), or modify your current submission to dryad, please
use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170218
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that
you have no competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an
Authors’ Contributions section which individually lists the specific contribution
of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1)
substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or
analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically
for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be
published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out
sequence alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the
manuscript; CD carried out the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH
conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the study and helped
draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the
authorship criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Authors Comments: The above items have now been addressed in the revised
manuscript as appropriate.
Society Open
