Do an invasive organism's dispersal characteristics affect
how we should search for it?
Maggie D. Triska and Michael Renton
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171784.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171784
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 November 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171784.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Frances Homans)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Do an invasive organism’s dispersal characteristics affect how we should search for it?
Review
This paper asks how surveillance strategies can be tailored to specific organisms and, in
particular, their dispersal characteristics. When crafting an approach to finding invasive species,
is it important to know how they spread and, if so, what are the implications for search? The
authors research this question by modeling species dispersal and simulating a set of outcomes of
interest under different sampling approaches. Specifically, they model five different dispersal
probability distributions, three sampling arrangements (grid, random, strategic), seven different
sampling densities, four different detection probabilities, and seven different sampling
frequencies. For all of these, the researchers compute four different outcomes (area affected,
number of fields affected, time to detection, number of escapes).
This modeling exercise yields a variety of results. Perhaps the most interesting is that the best
approach for one outcome (e.g., time to detection) is not necessarily the best for another (e.g., area
affected). The paper provides no guidance about which outcome managers should use. Instead,
these modeling results can inform a manager who has already decided on decision criteria. We
can also think of the contribution of this paper as pointing out that dispersal characteristics
matter in the design of an effective sampling strategy.
• This paper is silent on the economics of this problem, even though there is language about
efficiency and optimization. Without economic considerations, it is tough to agree with a claim
like there should be a high surveillance density to “maximise the likelihood of detection as
quickly as possible before spread becomes too great” (p. 7). The damage caused by a particular
species may not be great enough to warrant a highly aggressive search strategy. Information
about costs (damage costs and surveillance cost) would be necessary to evaluate alternative
strategies.
• What happens when a species is detected? Does detection imply management? Is there some
kind of assumption implied in this model (e.g., the species is eradicated upon detection if the
population is below a certain size)?
• Check for spelling errors (e.g., effiacy, esapes)
It seems to me that the answer to the question posed by the paper’s title is “probably,” but the
paper provides no guidance about the criteria used to determine how. I am not advocating
introducing economic criteria here, but I do think that removing language that suggests
preference of one strategy over another (like the sentence above about surveillance density) is
warranted. Don’t go beyond your model in drawing out the conclusions of your simulations.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
3
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an interesting paper that examines the effectiveness of surveillance strategies for detecting
an new invasive species. The paper is clearly presented, and appears to have been well executed.
The paper provides a good description of the terms and different sampling designs - clear and
succinct. I have few concerns.
My only substantive question would be whether detections are assumed to be independent. It
seems that independence was assumed, but in reality detection events are likely to be spatially
and/or temporally correlated due to spatial and or temporal correlation in activity or visibility of
the target organism. The scale of the spatial and temporal correlation might well impact the
apparent optimal surveillance design. This warrants some discussion if not analysis.
Minor comments
The supplementary material (R code) are readily available online via the UWA repository. That
all seems to be in order. The files are there and I was able to run the model myself. My only
comment would be to clarify that the address in the reference list (ref 22) is the doi address.
The authors refer to the "optimal" surveillance strategy. This is the surveillance strategy, among
those tested, that gave the best outcome (for a given model scenario). This is not necessarily the
optimal surveillance strategy when considering all possibilities (only among those strategies that
were tested). I tend to think of "optimal" as implying a broader search over the parameter space.
Perhaps that is just me, but the authors might consider using a different term.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171784)
22-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Triska
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171784 entitled
"Do an invasive organism’s dispersal characteristics affect how we should search for it?" has been
4
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171784
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-Jan-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
6
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Len Thomas (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Professor Len Thomas):
Both reviewers agree that the paper has merit, and they had only minor concerns or comments.
Please address these comments, point by point, in a covering letter accompanying any revision.
In particular (as suggested by Reviewer 2), consider carefully defining "optimal" or perhaps using
a different or modified term (e.g., locally optimal).
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Do an invasive organism’s dispersal characteristics affect how we should search for it?
Review
This paper asks how surveillance strategies can be tailored to specific organisms and, in
particular, their dispersal characteristics. When crafting an approach to finding invasive species,
is it important to know how they spread and, if so, what are the implications for search? The
authors research this question by modeling species dispersal and simulating a set of outcomes of
interest under different sampling approaches. Specifically, they model five different dispersal
probability distributions, three sampling arrangements (grid, random, strategic), seven different
sampling densities, four different detection probabilities, and seven different sampling
frequencies. For all of these, the researchers compute four different outcomes (area affected,
number of fields affected, time to detection, number of escapes).
This modeling exercise yields a variety of results. Perhaps the most interesting is that the best
approach for one outcome (e.g., time to detection) is not necessarily the best for another (e.g., area
7
affected). The paper provides no guidance about which outcome managers should use. Instead,
these modeling results can inform a manager who has already decided on decision criteria. We
can also think of the contribution of this paper as pointing out that dispersal characteristics
matter in the design of an effective sampling strategy.
• This paper is silent on the economics of this problem, even though there is language about
efficiency and optimization. Without economic considerations, it is tough to agree with a claim
like there should be a high surveillance density to “maximise the likelihood of detection as
quickly as possible before spread becomes too great” (p. 7). The damage caused by a particular
species may not be great enough to warrant a highly aggressive search strategy. Information
about costs (damage costs and surveillance cost) would be necessary to evaluate alternative
strategies.
• What happens when a species is detected? Does detection imply management? Is there some
kind of assumption implied in this model (e.g., the species is eradicated upon detection if the
population is below a certain size)?
• Check for spelling errors (e.g., effiacy, esapes)
It seems to me that the answer to the question posed by the paper’s title is “probably,” but the
paper provides no guidance about the criteria used to determine how. I am not advocating
introducing economic criteria here, but I do think that removing language that suggests
preference of one strategy over another (like the sentence above about surveillance density) is
warranted. Don’t go beyond your model in drawing out the conclusions of your simulations.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper that examines the effectiveness of surveillance strategies for detecting
an new invasive species. The paper is clearly presented, and appears to have been well executed.
The paper provides a good description of the terms and different sampling designs - clear and
succinct. I have few concerns.
My only substantive question would be whether detections are assumed to be independent. It
seems that independence was assumed, but in reality detection events are likely to be spatially
and/or temporally correlated due to spatial and or temporal correlation in activity or visibility of
the target organism. The scale of the spatial and temporal correlation might well impact the
apparent optimal surveillance design. This warrants some discussion if not analysis.
Minor comments
The supplementary material (R code) are readily available online via the UWA repository. That
all seems to be in order. The files are there and I was able to run the model myself. My only
comment would be to clarify that the address in the reference list (ref 22) is the doi address.
The authors refer to the "optimal" surveillance strategy. This is the surveillance strategy, among
those tested, that gave the best outcome (for a given model scenario). This is not necessarily the
optimal surveillance strategy when considering all possibilities (only among those strategies that
were tested). I tend to think of "optimal" as implying a broader search over the parameter space.
Perhaps that is just me, but the authors might consider using a different term.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171784)
See Appendices A & B.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171784.R1)
19-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Triska,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Do an invasive organism’s dispersal
characteristics affect how we should search for it?" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
ggie Triska and Michael Renton
an invasive organism’s dispersal characteristics affect how we should search for it?
mments Addressed
mments from Reviewer #1.
This paper is silent on the economics of this problem, even though there is language about
ciency and optimization. Without economic considerations, it is tough to agree with a claim
there should be a high surveillance density to “maximise the likelihood of detection as
ckly as possible before spread becomes too great” (p. 7). The damage caused by a particular
cies may not be great enough to warrant a highly aggressive search strategy. Information
ut costs (damage costs and surveillance cost) would be necessary to evaluate alternative
tegies.
the model we developed is generic in terms of location and pest; therefore, we were
ble to conduct any economic analysis. To avoid stating that one option is always
ferred over another. We updated the text in reference above to say “…we might
sider a high surveillance density to maximise the likelihood of detection as quickly as
sible before spread becomes too great, although for any particular pest and situation an
nomic analysis would be required to determine whether the benefits gained by earlier
ection would be great enough to warrant the additional costs of the higher density.”.
ditionally, to further emphasise the importance of economic analysis we added the following
ement to the discussion:
he model used in this study is intentionally generic, appropriate to our aim of finding
eral insights related to surveillance and dispersal characteristics. To determine which
veillance density and arrangement is best for any particular organism would require an
nomic analysis of the trade-off between surveillance costs and likely eradication and
mage costs.”
What happens when a species is detected? Does detection imply management? Is there
e kind of assumption implied in this model (e.g., the species is eradicated upon detection if
population is below a certain size)?
en a species is detected the four outcomes (area affected, number of fields affected, time
etection and the number of escapes) are calculated and the next simulation begins. To
ke clear that no management or eradication occurs within our model we updated the
tence where the outcomes are discussed. It now reads. “These four outcomes are
umed to be closely related to the probability of being able to eradicate the species
owing detection, the cost of such eradication, and the probability of the species
eading onwards to other fields.”
Check for spelling errors (e.g., effiacy, esapes)
double checked for and corrected spelling errors. They are highlighted in the corrected
t file.
eems to me that the answer to the question posed by the paper’s title is “probably,” but the
er provides no guidance about the criteria used to determine how. I am not advocating
oducing economic criteria here, but I do think that removing language that suggests
ference of one strategy over another (like the sentence above about surveillance density) is
ranted. Don’t go beyond your model in drawing out the conclusions of your simulations.
per our response to comment number 1, we updated the text to better reflect our model
ults and avoid drawing conclusions beyond the scope of our model.
iewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
s is an interesting paper that examines the effectiveness of surveillance strategies for
ecting an new invasive species. The paper is clearly presented, and appears to have been well
cuted. The paper provides a good description of the terms and different sampling designs -
ar and succinct. I have few concerns.
only substantive question would be whether detections are assumed to be independent. It
ms that independence was assumed, but in reality detection events are likely to be spatially
/or temporally correlated due to spatial and or temporal correlation in activity or visibility of
target organism. The scale of the spatial and temporal correlation might well impact the
arent optimal surveillance design. This warrants some discussion if not analysis.
are not completely sure if we understand this comment. We are only interested in the
y first detection following a new incursion. We therefore run the simulation many times
epresent many different possible incursion scenarios, but for each one we only record
very first detection event. We would argue that it is appropriate to treat each result as
ependent as each simulation represents one possible independent future scenario. If we
sidered multiple detections within the same incursion simulation, then they certainly
uld not be independent, but we do not consider multiple detections within each
ulation.
nor comments
supplementary material (R code) are readily available online via the UWA repository. That
seems to be in order. The files are there and I was able to run the model myself. My only
ment would be to clarify that the address in the reference list (ref 22) is the doi address.
s section now states “Full model and surveillance code can be accessed from The
iversity of Western Australia’s online Repository and associated DOI address in the
erence list below [22]”
authors refer to the "optimal" surveillance strategy. This is the surveillance strategy, among
se tested, that gave the best outcome (for a given model scenario). This is not necessarily the
imal surveillance strategy when considering all possibilities (only among those strategies that
e tested). I tend to think of "optimal" as implying a broader search over the parameter space.
haps that is just me, but the authors might consider using a different term.
s is a good point. We were unable to identify another term that we felt accurately
laced ‘optimal’ and therefore we rephrased these sections to discuss considering several
erent strategies and then determining which is best of those considered.
Appendix B
Do an invasive organism’s dispersal characteristics affect how we should search for it?
Maggie D. Triska1, 2 and Michael Renton1, 2
1
Schools of Biological Sciences, Agriculture and Environment, The University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling
Highway, Crawley, Western Australia 6009 Australia
2
Plant Biosecurity Cooperative Research Centre, Level 2, Building 22, Innovation Centre, University Drive,
Univeristy of Canberra, Bruce, Australian Capital Territory 2617 Australia
Corresponding Author Email: mdtriska@gmail.com
Abstract
We investigated how an invading organism’s dispersal characteristics affect the efficacy of different
surveillance strategies aimed at detecting that organism as it spreads following a new incursion. Specifically, we
assessed whether, out of the surveillance strategies tested, the best surveillance strategy for an organism varied
depending on the way it disperses. We simulated the spread of invasive organisms with different dispersal
characteristics including leptokurtic and non-leptokurtic kernels with different median dispersal distances and
degrees of kurtosis. We evaluated surveillance strategies with different sampling arrangements, densities and
frequencies. Surveillance outcomes compared included the time to detection, the total spread of the invasion and
the likelihood of the invasion reaching new areas. Overall, dispersal characteristics affected the surveillance
outcomes, but the grid surveillance arrangement consistently performed best in terms of early detection and
reduced spread within and between fields. Additionally, the results suggest that dispersal characteristics may
influence spread to new areas and surveillance strategies. Therefore, knowledge on an invasive organism’s
dispersal characteristics may influence on how we search for it and how we manage the invasion to prevent
spread to new areas.
Keywords: biosecurity, diffusion, invasion biology, leptokurtic, pests, spatial spread
Running title: Influence of dispersal on surveillance strategies
Background
Biological invasions often have negative impacts on the environment and economy including reduced
biodiversity, trade restrictions and high management costs [1]. Consequently, prevention is the best defence
against biological invasions, but often legislation and quarantine procedures are not enough to restrict a new
invasion from occurring [2]. When prevention fails, surveillance strategies are required to identify invasions
quickly to alleviate the potential negative impacts of invasions [3]. Surveillance strategies aim to improve the
likelihood of identifying invasions early, thus increasing the probability of successful eradication efforts [1, 4,
5].
To evaluate surveillance strategies for the early detection of biological invasions, we must account for both their
costs (e.g., the search effort) and their efficacy [e.g., the probability of detecting the organism within a certain
1
time of its first arrival; 3]. The efficacy of a given surveillance strategy is unlikely to be the same for all
organisms, and instead is expected to be dependent on the organism’s biological characteristics and the way
these interact with the environment [6, 7]. Most organisms are likely to have some ability to spread by
themselves; this is typically a density-dependent diffusion type of spread. Additionally, most invasive organisms
exhibit occasional, rare long-distance dispersal events, usually resulting from human or environmental vectors,
which travel a greater distance than the usual diffusion and have the potential to increase greatly the spread of an
invasion [8-11]. The frequency and distance of these long-distance dispersal events, and the rate at which spread
occurs at other times, will vary from one organism to another and strongly influence the way each organism
spreads.
Surveillance strategies are typically designed using information from prior and current monitoring, reporting
and predictive modelling [1, 12]. However, current models often do not account for specific dispersal
characteristics, due in part to the challenge of predicting rare, stochastic, long-distance dispersal events, and
instead, they focus on the evaluation of surveillance methods based on detection probability or resource
availability [3, 13-16]. Therefore, there is a need to test whether an organism’s dispersal characteristics will
affect its spread patterns in a way that impacts the efficacy of different surveillance strategies, and their relative
efficiency (i.e., which strategy is most effective, for a given cost). If this is indeed the case, it will indicate a
clear need to incorporate different dispersal characteristics, and particularly occasional long-distance dispersal,
into spread models used to test surveillance strategies, even if they are hard to predict or quantify [9, 17, 18].
The aim of this study was to investigate whether the effectiveness of different surveillance strategies to detect
new biological invasions depends on the organism’s dispersal characteristics. In terms of dispersal
characteristics, we were interested in median and mean dispersal distance, and the frequency and distance of
occasional long-distance dispersal, which corresponds to the degree to which the organism’s dispersal kernel is
leptokurtic or ‘fat-tailed’. We wanted to assess effectiveness via a range of measures, including the time to
detection, the maximum spread distance, the area infested at the time of detection and the amount of spread
beyond the area under surveillance. These measures were selected as they can be linked to the likelihood of
spread to new areas, the probability of eradication and the cost of that eradication. We also considered a variety
of surveillance strategies, including different sampling arrangements, densities and frequencies.
Materials and methods
We used a general spread model to simulate the spread of a new biological invasion. The stochastic model,
implemented in R [19], simulates initial spread of an invasive organism across a landscape where some areas are
suitable, and others are unsuitable. The model uses a simple function to represent population dynamics within
each pixel. The function relates time since initial colonisation to the number of propagules produced in the pixel.
It depends on four model parameters: pmax, the maximum number offspring per generation; r0, the rate of spread;
t0, the time from first infestation/colonisation to the start of reproduction; and t50, the time from first
infestation/colonisation to when 50% of the maximum reproduction is reached (Table 1). Another model
parameter pestab specifies the proportion of offspring that establish upon reaching a suitable habitat. The model
assumes passive isotropic dispersal, that is, the pest has equal chance of dispersing in any direction and does not
2
actively search for any particular type of habitat or host. We simulated dispersal separately for each propagule
and generated dispersal distance as a random draw from a dispersal kernel. The model is based on previous
biological spread models [20, 21]; for additional details of the model see Triska and Renton 2015 [6].
For this study, all simulations were conducted on the same landscape, which could represent, for example, a
horticultural farm, an orchard, a tree plantation, or remnants of natural vegetation separated by roads (Fig. 1).
For simplicity, we describe it as a farm where the simulated landscape consists of 1 x 1 m square pixels (total
square area of 614 x 614 m; 37.70 ha). The farm is subdivided into 25 blocks of suitable habitat or ‘fields’, each
100 x 100 m (1.00 ha), which are separated by 2 m divisions that represent plants or roads, and there is a 50 m
buffer around the fields (Fig. 1a). The pest cannot establish in the divisions between fields or in the buffer,
reflecting an assumption that conditions are unsuitable or a suitable host is not present.
We conducted a series of spread simulations with all model parameters held at fixed values (Table 1), except for
dispersal. We used two non-leptokurtic (exponential) and three leptokurtic (Weibull) dispersal kernels (Table 2).
For each kernel, we conducted 100 replicate simulation runs, with each run simulating spread for 200-400
timesteps (nominally representing months; see Table 1 for variable input values). In each simulation run, the
initial location of the invasion was randomly selected within one of the 25 fields, and then spread from this
initial site was simulated.
The five dispersal kernels were chosen to enable comparison between different dispersal distances, and also
different levels of kurtosis (fat-tailedness). Each kernel could be described by two parameters: d50, the median
dispersal distance, or the distance that half the propagules exceed, and d99, the 99th percentile dispersal distance,
or the distance that only 1% of propagules exceed (Table 1). The exponential kernel is defined by one
parameter, and so specifying either one d99 or d50 will determine the other (and also the distribution scale
parameter k). The Weibull kernel is defined by two parameters, and so specifying both the d50 and d99 values
will determine the scale (k) and shape (<U+03BB>) parameters of the distribution (Table 2). Our first exponential kernel
(Exp) used the same d99 value as the first Weibull kernel (Wei) and the second exponential kernel (Exp+) had a
greater d99 value to more closely mimic the spread of the Weibull distributions. The second Weibull kernel
(Wei-) had both d50 and d99 decreased by a factor of two, compared with the first (Wei), meaning that it was
equally as leptokurtic, but just generated smaller distances. The two exponential kernels could thus be described
as non-leptokurtic, and the first two Weibull kernels as mediumly leptokurtic. The third Weibull kernel (Wei+),
was used to represent an organism with extremely leptokurtic dispersal; this one had the same d99 as the first
(Wei) but a much smaller d50.
The five kernels result in distinct patterns of spread (Fig. 2). The non-leptokurtic exponential kernels result in
diffusion-style spread, with a constant rate of linear expansion, a relatively smooth invasion front, and no
satellite infestations appearing beyond the invasion front. The leptokurtic Weibull kernels and particularly Wei+
result in typical leptokurtic spread, with a rate of expansion that increases with time (exponential expansion), a
relatively unsmooth invasion front, and clear satellite infestations appearing beyond the invasion front. As
desired, in the early stages of spread, the Wei- kernel results in similar spread area to the Exp kernel and the
3
Exp+ kernel results in similar spread area to the Wei kernel. The Wei+ kernel results in similar spread area in the
earliest stages as well, but quickly overtakes the others. The fat-tail of the leptokurtic kernels resulted in
individuals escaping the simulated area (i.e., jumping beyond the 50 m buffer around the fields) and so the
number of such escapes at each timestep was recorded during each simulation.
Next, we simulated the process of detection under different surveillance strategies. In this study, a surveillance
strategy is defined by the spatial locations or points at which sampling occurs, with different strategies having
different sampling densities, frequencies and/or arrangements. ‘Sampling points’ is used in a general sense, and
could refer to locations at which soil or leaf samples are taken, or the locations at which traps are placed, etc.
Surveillance arrangement was based on standard sampling designs, including grid, random and strategic
arrangements. In the grid arrangement, sampling always occurred at the same points on a regular grid (Fig. 1b).
In the random arrangement, the number of points per field remained constant, but the exact locations within
each field were randomly selected at the start of each simulation. In the strategic arrangement the same number
of points as in the grid and random were used, but the placement focussed on the edges of the farm, having just
one point in the middle of each field and all additional sampling points located near the border of the simulated
area (Fig. 1d). Surveillance density and frequency were also varied. Surveillance density ranged from 1
sampling point per 2 fields (0.5 points/field; alternating field location between runs [Fig. 1c]) to 1, 2, 4, 9, 16, or
25 points/field. Surveillance frequency ranged from sampling once per month to once every 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 or 12
months. For all strategies, we also considered how detection probability affected the surveillance efficacy. Four
detection probabilities (pdetect) were assessed: perfect detection probability (1.00) and three imperfect detection
probabilities, very low (0.01), low (0.25) and high (0.75). Every simulated spread output, for each replicate with
each dispersal kernel, was checked against each combination of surveillance strategy and detection probability,
and the first timestep at which a detection occurred was recorded. Detection was assumed to occur with a
probability, pdetect, in any pixel that was infested and where sampling occurred at that time. At the timestep when
detection first occurred, multiple output variables were calculated and recorded, including: the time to detection
(t), the area infested (Area), the maximum distance of infestation from the initial incursion point (Maxdist), the
number of fields infested (NoFields), and the number of escapes, or propagules that went beyond the 50 m buffer
(E) (Table 1). These four output variables are assumed to be closely related to the probability of being able to
eradicate the species following detection, the cost of such eradication, and the probability of the species
spreading onwards to other fields. Basic statistics were calculated for each of these output variables across the
100 replicate runs, for every combination of dispersal kernel (Exp, Exp+, Wei, Wei-, Wei+), arrangement (grid,
random and strategic), density (number of points per field: 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 9, 16, or 25), frequency (1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 or
12) and detection probability (0.01, 0.25, 0.75 and 1.00). Full model and surveillance code can be accessed from
The University of Western Australia’s online Repository and associated DOI address in the reference list below
[22]
Results
Overview
Different dispersal kernels resulted in different surveillance outcomes, regardless of surveillance density,
frequency, arrangement or detection probability (Figs. 3-5, Appendix S1). The dispersal kernel giving the worst
4
(or best) result under one surveillance measure was not necessarily the same kernel that gave the worst (or best)
result under another surveillance measure. For example, at low surveillance density, Wei+ resulted in the highest
maximum distance, area infested and number of fields, but the lowest time to detection (Fig. 4). Even more
interestingly, which surveillance arrangement type was best out of the strategies simulated depended on both the
measure of surveillance efficacy and the dispersal kernel in combination (Fig. 3). Specifically, the grid
arrangement gave fewer escapes than the strategic border arrangement for the most leptokurtic kernel (Wei+),
whereas the strategic border arrangement gave fewer escapes for the Wei kernel (Fig. 3, Appendix S2). On the
other hand, the grid arrangement outperformed the strategic border arrangement for the Wei and Wei+ kernels
when the surveillance measure was time to detection (Fig. 3).
Surveillance density (Fig. 4) and surveillance frequency (Fig. 5) affected measures of surveillance efficacy in
the expected ways, although there were still interesting interactions with dispersal kernel. For example,
increasing surveillance density caused a greater reduction in time to detection for the less leptokurtic kernels
(e.g., Exp) than for the more leptokurtic (e.g., Wei+) kernels (Fig. 4). As detection probability decreased, time to
detection and spread at detection increased, as would be expected, and the variability in outputs between
replicate runs also increased (Appendix S1). At the lowest detection probability (0.01), infestations were not
always detected (kernel [% not detected]: Exp [14%], Exp+ [7%], Wei [16%], Wei- [22%] and Wei+ [23%]) but
at all other detection probabilities infestations were always detected for all kernels. The effects of varying
density, frequency, detection probability and arrangement were largely independent, and so we only attempt to
show interactions between each of these and dispersal kernel (Figs. 3-5 & Appendix S1). We present median
values and ranges of results in Figures and the mean ± SE are presented in text when appropriate.
Surveillance Arrangement
Surveillance arrangement affected the time to detection and spread for all dispersal kernels, with the grid
arrangement generally giving the quickest time to detection and strategic and random arrangements the slowest
(Fig. 3). The grid arrangement also generally resulted in the lowest within-field spread (including maximum
distance, area, and number of fields). The grid arrangement had the lowest number of escapes for the highly
leptokurtic Wei+ dispersal kernel (Fig. 3, Appendix S2). In contrast, for the less leptokurtic Wei dispersal kernel,
the strategic and grid arrangements resulted in similar number of escapes, with the strategic arrangement
sometimes performing best. For the Exp dispersal kernels, the number of escapes was zero for all surveillance
arrangements.
Surveillance Density
Overall, the time to detection for all dispersal kernels decreased as the density of samples increased (Fig. 4).
Increasing surveillance density caused a greater reduction in time to detection for the less leptokurtic kernels
(e.g., Exp) than for the more leptokurtic (e.g., Wei+) kernels. The time to initial detection was highest in the
Wei- kernel across all sampling densities (123.50 ± 4.17 months at 0.5 points/field), which decreased as the
surveillance density increased to 31.08 months ± 1.12 months at 25 points/field.
5
The maximum distance travelled by the invasion decreased as surveillance density increased for all dispersal
kernels, and at similar rates for all kernels (Fig. 4). The maximum distance travelled for the Wei, Wei- and Exp+
kernels always occurred between the maximum distance travelled for Wei+ (highest) and Exp (lowest) kernels
regardless of the surveillance density. For the lowest surveillance density (0.5 points/field) the maximum
distance travelled was highest for the Wei+ kernel (397.59 ± 10.19 m) and lowest for the Exp kernel (63.63 ±
2.46 m), with the invasion travelling further for the Wei kernel, than for the Wei- and Exp+ kernels (119.38 ±
3.95 m, 89.80 ± 3.29 m and 74.83 ± 2.32 m, respectively).
The area infested (m2) at the time of detection decreased as the surveillance density increased (Fig. 4). The
percent of the suitable landscape infested was highest when the surveillance density was lowest for all dispersal
kernels, Wei+ (12,065.90 ± 905.32 m2, 4.83% of the total field area), Wei- (10,167.22 ± 655.12 m2, 4.07% of
the total field area), Wei (10,105.65 ± 674.63 m2, 4.04% of the total field area), Exp+ (10,051.17 ± 586.05 m2,
4.02% of the total field area) and Exp (9,333.93 ± 631.44 m2, 3.73% of the total field area). The total area
infested decreased to less than 1% in all dispersal kernels as the surveillance density increased to 4 or more
points/field.
The number of fields infested decreased for all dispersal kernels as surveillance density increased (Fig. 4). The
greatest number of fields infested occurred with the Wei+ kernel and a total of 5.51± 0.55 infested fields
occurred at the lowest survey density. The invasion did not travel as far under the other surveillance densities
and 2.24 ± 0.22, 1.75 ± 0.17, 1.91 ± 0.19, and 1.89 ± 0.19 fields were infested for Wei, Wei-, Exp and Exp+
kernels, respectively.
The number of escapes decreased as survey density increased (Fig. 4, Appendix S2). Escapes only occurred for
the leptokurtic Weilbull dispersal kernels, with no escapes for the exponential kernels at any surveillance
density. The probability and expected number of escapes for the Wei- kernel was dependent on the surveillance
density, with few escapes (range 0.01-0.07) occurring when = 2 points/field were simulated and zero escapes
when = 4 points/field were simulated (Appendix S2). The highest numbers of escapes were recorded for the
Wei+ kernel at all surveillance densities with 140.43 ± 20.36 escapes occurring at the lowest density and 1.33 ±
0.22 escapes occurring at the highest density for this kernel.
Surveillance Frequency
The mean time to detection increased with decreasing surveillance frequency for all dispersal kernels. (Fig. 5).
However, this effect of surveillance frequency was small: as surveillance frequency varied from the maximum
(monthly) to the minimum (yearly), the time to detection varied from 75.85 ± 2.30 to 84.84 ± 2.43 months for
the Wei- kernel, and from 37.87 ± 1.24 to 47.28 ± 1.41 months for the Exp+ kernel. The effect of surveillance
frequency on time to detection was greatest for the Exp+ kernel and smaller for the more leptokurtic kernels.
Surveillance frequency had a similarly small effect on maximum distance travelled by the invasion, area
infested (m2) and number of fields infested at the time of detection, with only small improvements observed
with more frequent sampling (Fig. 5). At all surveillance frequencies, both maximum distance and number of
6
fields were greatest for the Wei+ kernel and smallest for the Exp kernel. Infested area tended to be greatest for
the Exp+ kernel but there was little difference between the kernels over the range of surveillance frequencies.
The effect of surveillance frequency on all three of these within-field spread measures (distance, area, fields)
was greatest for the Exp+ and Wei+ kernels. The number of escapes also decreased with increased frequency and
the largest impact occurred for the Wei+ kernel for which increased survey density from yearly to monthly
reduced the number of escapes from 120.87 ± 24.19 to 23.70 ± 3.33.
Discussion
The results of this study demonstrate that it is important to consider dispersal characteristics when designing
surveillance strategies aimed at reducing the negative impacts of biological invasions through early detection.
An invasive organism’s dispersal characteristics affect how we should search for it. Expectedly, highly
leptokurtic dispersal kernels spread faster than low or non-leptokurtic dispersal kernels and the highly
leptokurtic kernels have a higher potential to infest new areas. This increase in invasion potential is driven by
the isolated satellite/outpost loci of the invasion that long-distance dispersal creates which exponentially
increases the rate of expansion [23]. Our results also showed organisms with highly leptokurtic dispersal were
generally detected earlier than those with less or non-leptokurtic kernels, but their invasion extent at the time of
initial detection (i.e., maximum distance traveled, area and number of fields infested) was greater.
Therefore, for an organism that displays leptokurtic dispersal we might consider a high surveillance density to
maximise the likelihood of detection as quickly as possible before spread becomes too great, although for any
particular pest and situation an economic analysis would be required to determine whether the benefits gained
by earlier detection would be great enough to warrant the additional costs of the higher density. Additionally,
the idea of ‘early detection’ may be misleading for an organism with highly leptokurtic dispersal, as a given
surveillance strategy may detect it quicker than a second organism with less leptokurtic dispersal, but despite
this, the first organism may have spread further and across greater area than the second organism when the first
detection occurs. Moreover, the organism with highly leptokurtic dispersal will probably have a greater
likelihood of escaping from beyond the surveillance area, even if it is detected considerably earlier. In other
words, relatively early detection may not be good enough for an organism with highly leptokurtic dispersal, and
even earlier detection may be required. In contrast, early detection may not be very important for an organism
with a slow spreading non-leptokurtic dispersal kernel, as a low-density, low-frequency surveillance strategy
that detects the invasion relatively late, is still likely to detect it before it has spread far or wide, and particularly
before it has escaped the surveillance area. We can conclude that for a species exhibiting non-leptokurtic
dispersal, a low surveillance density may be sufficient, for a species exhibiting leptokurtic dispersal, intense
sampling may be required to make surveillance effective, and for a species exhibiting highly leptokurtic
dispersal, there may be no effective surveillance strategy, or at least none that is feasible or economical.
However, the model used in this study is intentionally generic, appropriate to our aim of finding general insights
related to surveillance and dispersal characteristics. To determine which surveillance density and arrangement is
best for any particular organism would require an economic analysis of the trade-off between surveillance costs
and likely eradication and damage costs.
7
A more effective arrangement using the same surveillance density and frequency is likely to be of significant
interest to biosecurity managers, because it achieves better outcomes with the same resources. Our results
suggest that the grid arrangement was generally better than the alternative random or strategic arrangements,
across most measures of surveillance efficacy, sampling densities and frequencies, and dispersal kernels.
However, there was one potentially important exception. The number of escapes from the surveillance area was
at least as good with a strategic border-protecting arrangement as with a grid arrangement for the Wei kernel,
even though it was higher for the Wei+ kernel. For the Exp kernels, the number of escapes was always zero, but
this was only because we had a buffer region. Without the buffer region, we would expect the strategic border-
protecting arrangement to give fewer escapes than a grid or random arrangement for the Exp kernels as well.
This indicates that for non-leptokurtic or less-leptokurtic dispersal, a strategic border-protecting arrangement
may perform as well as or even better than other more standard arrangements in terms of stopping spread
beyond the surveillance area, which should be a key surveillance strategy evaluation criterion. Only for highly-
leptokurtic dispersal would grid arrangements be expected to give better outcomes. We can conclude that if
stopping spread beyond the surveillance area is the most important objective, surveillance arrangement should
be considered in light of an organism’s dispersal characteristics.
We determined that regardless of the dispersal kernel increasing surveillance density had much greater impact
on improving outcomes than did increasing frequency. This suggests that resources should be allocated to
increasing density rather than frequency, unless perhaps the cost of increasing frequency is much lower.
Equivalently, if costs are to be cut, it may be better to reduce frequency rather than reduce density. We also
found that increasing density (and frequency) had more effect on organisms with non-leptokurtic dispersal than
those with leptokurtic dispersal, which is unfortunate because organisms with leptokurtic dispersal are precisely
those that need more effective surveillance, as explained above.
This study suggests that to best optimise or predict the effectiveness of surveillance we must identify if a species
exhibits leptokurtic dispersal, and even the degree to which its dispersal is leptokurtic. Our results also suggest
that effective surveillance is likely to be much more difficult and costly for organisms with more leptokurtic
dispersal. We know that most species can display long-distance, leptokurtic dispersal, and those that cannot
move far on their own often rely on vectors for long-distance dispersal [8-11]. Additionally, species and
environments may have characteristics that increase the likelihood of vector and long-distance dispersal [24].
For invasive species, some of these characteristics include attachment (sticky or barbed appendages),
aerodynamic properties, buoyancy and location (distance to roadways, high fragmentation and transportation
hubs) [24, 25]. Based on species and environmental characteristics, the potential vectors (wind, water, humans,
etc.) of species can be defined. Management may then be used to reduce species movement or control the
potential vectors and decrease their likelihood of causing long-distance dispersal events [26, 27]. Alternatively,
if the vectors cannot be reduced or controlled the spread of the invasion may be decreased through other
strategies (i.e., crop rotation, planting resistant varieties, utilising hygiene procedures, etc.) [28]. Even better, if
leptokurtic dispersal of an invasive organism seems likely to occur and difficult to manage, then no surveillance
or eradication strategy may be cost-effective, and resources may be best allocated to preventing the initial spread
and incursion occurring in the first place [29, 30].
8
Our results demonstrate that the relationship between time until first detection and extent of spread at time of
first detection may depend on an organism’s dispersal characteristics. Therefore, species with low or non-
leptokurtic dispersal may be candidates for eradication, but leptokurtic species may not be candidates for
eradication due to their increased spread. This is supported by the fact that a small total area infested (i.e., one
small, isolated infestation) has been linked to successful eradication efforts in multiple taxa (animalia, bacteria,
fungi, plantae, and viruses) and regions (Europe, Americas and Australasia) [4]. Therefore, to detect species
before they have spread beyond the option of eradication, we must optimise surveillance. Our results suggest
that increased surveillance density in a grid pattern may be the most successful strategy for quickly detecting
organisms with leptokurtic dispersal, but strategic border-protecting arrangements may be better for stopping
escapes. This supports other studies’ findings that increased surveillance density along with higher species
abundance [31] or surveillance arrangements that systematically cover the whole sampling area (i.e., grid or zig-
zag arrangements) may increase the likelihood of species detection [32, 33]. However, our results also highlight
that species detection may not be optimised with the same strategies as those that minimise escapes, and indeed
it is the latter that may be more important in a biosecurity context.
Additionally, the results of this study may have implications beyond surveillance for invasive organisims.
Surveillance models that incorporate dispersal characteristics do not only provide predictions for biological
invasions in agricultural and natural ecosystems, but the general model and methodology may have implications
for conservation, restoration and the persistence of species under climate change [34-36]. Although the aims of
these endeavours may be conflicting (i.e., species control and eradication versus species conservation and
establishment) they all depend on the ability to predict species’ spread and subsequent detection. We suggest
that to estimate species’ spread and design surveillance, it is likely essential to understand the species’ dispersal
potential and characteristics. Whether for purposes of preventing invasions or for conservation or restoration,
surveillance of species in new areas can be challenging as species are often patchy within the landscape, rare or
small [37]. Results of this study and the modelling approach employed could be used to help determine how to
detect rare, uncommon species by targeting their known habitat and their likely spread based on species’
dispersal potentials, whether the aim is for conservation or eradication.
Our aim was to produce a general spread model that did not explicitly account for biological processes such as
fecundity, mortality and time to maturity that may influence spread [38], in order to keep the model relatively
simple and focussed on dispersal characteristics. Additionally, the model does not incorporate spatial
heterogeneity which likely impacts the spread rate of invasive species [7, 39]. In fact, research suggests that
improvements to the surveillance of invasive species may occur through the identification of suitable habitat and
economic costs [13, 40, 41]. Therefore, the next steps of this research are to apply the general spread model to
specific case studies and incorporate simple biological processes and the spatial heterogeneity of the landscape
to determine if these characteristics, along with different dispersal types, influence surveillance strategies that
include economic analyses.
9
Data accessibility
General spread model and surveillance code can be accessed from The University of Western Australia’s online
repository. (http://dx.doi.org/10.4225/23/59f8279a6b418) [22]
Competing interests
We have no competing interests.
Authors’ contributions
MDT and MR conceived the concept of the study and jointly coded the general spread model. MDT completed
all simulations and data analyses with continual feedback from MR. MDT drafted the manuscript and MR
contributed to revisions and provided feedback throughout. Both authors approve the final article for
publication.
Funding
Funding was provided by the Plant Biosecurity Cooperative Research Centre (PBCRC) and the Schools of
Biological Sciences and Agriculture and Environment at the University of Western Australia.
Research ethics
No ethics approval was required for this study.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to acknowledge the support of the Australian Government’s Cooperative Research
Centres Program. We also thank two anonymous reviewers for their feedback on an earlier draft of this
manuscript.
References
1 Hulme, P. E. 2014 An Introduction to Plant Biosecurity: Past, Present and Future. In The Handbook of Plant
Biosecurity. (eds. G. Gordh, S. McKirdy), pp. 1-25. Netherlands: Springer.
2 Simberloff, D., Martin, J.-L., Genovesi, P., Maris, V., Wardle, D. A., Aronson, J., Courchamp, F., Galil, B.,
García-Berthou, E., Pascal, M., et al. 2013 Impacts of biological invasions: what's what and the way forward.
Trends in Ecology & Evolution. 28, 58-66. (10.1016/j.tree.2012.07.013)
3 Mehta, S. V., Haight, R. G., Homans, F. R., Polasky, S., Venette, R. C. 2007 Optimal detection and control
strategies for invasive species management. Ecological Economics. 61, 237-245.
(10.1016/j.ecolecon.2006.10.024)
4 Pluess, T., Cannon, R., Jarošík, V., Pergl, J., Pyšek, P., Bacher, S. 2012 When are eradication campaigns
successful? A test of common assumptions. Biol Invasions. 14, 1365-1378. (10.1007/s10530-011-0160-2)
5 Rejmánek, M., Pitcairn, M. J. 2002 When is eradication of exotic pest plants a realistic goal. In Turning the
tide: the eradication of invasive species. (eds. C. R. Veitch, M. N. Clout), pp. 249-253. Gland and Cambridge:
IUCN SSC Invasive Species Specialist Group.
6 Triska, M. D., Renton, M. Year A general model to simulate how an invading organism's dispersal
characteristics influence its spread, and the implications for surveillance strategies. In: T. Weber, M. J. McPhee,
R. S. Anderssen, editors. MODSIM2015, 21st International Congress on Modelling and Simulation; 2015
10
December 2015; Gold Coast, Australia: Modelling and Simulation Society of Australia and New Zealand; 2015.
p. 1268-1274.
7 Pitt, J. P. W., Worner, S. P., Suarez, A. V. 2009 Predicting Argentine Ant Spread over the Heterogeneous
Landscape Using a Spatially Explicit Stochastic Model. Ecological Applications. 19, 1176-1186. (10.1890/08-
1777.1)
8 Kot, M., Lewis, M. A., van den Driessche, P. 1996 Dispersal data and the spread of invading organisms.
Ecology. 77, 2027-2042. (10.2307/2265698)
9 Hastings, A., Cuddington, K., Davies, K. F., Dugaw, C. J., Elmendorf, S., Freestone, A., Harrison, S.,
Holland, M., Lambrinos, J., Malvadkar, U., et al. 2005 The spatial spread of invasions: new developments in
theory and evidence. Ecology Letters. 8, 91-101. (10.1111/j.1461-0248.2004.00687.x)
10 Nathan, R., Klein, E., Robledo-Arnuncio, J. J., Revilla, E. 2012 Dispersal kernels: review. In Dispersal
ecology and evolution. (eds. J. Colobert, M. Baguette, T. G. Benton, J. M. Bullock), pp. 186-210. Oxford, UK:
Oxford University Press.
11 Nathan, R. 2006 Long-Distance Dispersal of Plants. Science. 313, 786-788. (10.1126/science.1124975)
12 Kalaris, T., Fieselmann, D., Magarey, R., Colunga-Garcia, M., Roda, A., Hardie, D., Cogger, N., Hammond,
N., Martin, P. A. T., Whittle, P. 2014 The role of surveillance methods and technologies in plant biosecurity. In
The Handbook of Plant Biosecurity. (eds. G. Gordh, S. McKirdy), pp. 1-25. Netherlands: Springer.
13 Berec, L., Kean, J. M., Epanchin-Niell, R., Liebhold, A. M., Haight, R. G. 2015 Designing efficient surveys:
spatial arrangement of sample points for detection of invasive species. Biol Invasions. 17, 445-459.
(10.1007/s10530-014-0742-x)
14 Epanchin-Niell, R. S., Brockerhoff, E. G., Kean, J. M., Turner, J. 2014 Designing cost-efficient surveillance
for early detection and control of multiple biological invaders. Ecological Applications. 24, 1258-1274.
(10.1890/13-1331.1)
15 Cacho, O. J., Spring, D., Hester, S., Mac Nally, R. 2010 Allocating surveillance effort in the management of
invasive species: a spatially-explicit model. Environmental Modelling & Software. 25, 444-454.
(10.1016/j.envsoft.2009.10.014)
16 Hester, S., Cacho, O. 2012 Optimization of search strategies in managing biological invasions: a simulation
approach. Human and Ecological Risk Assessment: An International Journal. 18, 181-199.
(10.1080/10807039.2012.632307)
17 Higgins, S. I., Richardson, D. M. 1999 Predicting plant migration rates in a changing world: the role of long-
distance dispersal. The American Naturalist. 153, 464-475. (10.2307/2463662)
18 Suarez, A. V., Holway, D. A., Case, T. J. 2001 Patterns of spread in biological invasions dominated by long-
distance jump dispersal: insights from Argentine ants. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 98,
1095-1100. (10.1073.pnas.98.3.1095)
19 R Core Team. R: A language and environment for statistical computing. Vienna, Austria: R Foundation for
Statistical Computing 2016.
20 Renton, M., Savage, D. 2015 Statistical emulators of simulation models to inform surveillance and response
to new biological invasions. In Biosecurity Surveillance: Quantitative Approaches. (eds. F. Jarrad, S. Low-
Choy, K. Mengersen), pp. 296-312. Wallingford: CABI Publishing.
21 Savage, D., Renton, M. 2014 Requirements design and implementation of a general model of biological
invasion. Ecological Modelling. 272, 394-409. (10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2013.10.001)
22 Triska, M., Renton, M. 2017 General Spread Model. The University of Western Australia.
(10.4225/23/59f8279a6b418)
23 Hengeveld, R. 1989 Dynamics of biological invasions. London: Springer.
24 Davies, K. W., Sheley, R. L. 2007 A conceptual framework for preventing the spatial dispersal of invasive
plants. Weed Science. 55, 178-184. (10.1614/WS-07-067.1)
25 Sakai, A. K., Allendorf, F. W., Holt, J. S., Lodge, D. M., Molofsky, J., With, K. A., Baughman, S., Cabin, R.
J., Cohen, J. E., Ellstrand, N. C., et al. 2001 The Population Biology of Invasive Specie. Annual Review of
Ecology and Systematics. 32, 305-332. (10.1146/annurev.ecolsys.32.081501.114037)
26 Sheley, R. L., Petroff, J. K. 1999 Biology and management of noxious rangeland weeds. Oregon: Oregon
State University Press.
27 Goodell, K., Parker, I. M., Gilbert, G. S. 2000 Biological impacts of species invasions: implications for
policy makers. In National Research Council (US), Incorporating science, economics, and sociology in
developing sanitary and phytosanitary standards in international trade. (eds. pp. 87-117. Washington, DC:
National Academy Press.
11
28 Matyjaszczyk, E. 2015 Prevention methods for pest control and their use in Poland. Pest Management
Science. 71, 485-491. (10.1002/ps.3795)
29 Myers, J. H., Simberloff, D., Kuris, A. M., Carey, J. R. 2000 Eradication revisited: dealing with exotic
species. Trends in Ecology & Evolution. 15, 316-320. (10.1016/S0169-5347(00)01914-5)
30 Leung, B., Lodge, D. M., Finnoff, D., Shogren, J. F., Lewis, M. A., Lamberti, G. 2002 An ounce of
prevention or a pound of cure: bioeconomic risk analysis of invasive species. Proceedings of the Royal Society
of London B: Biological Sciences. 269, 2407-2413. (10.1098/rsb.2002.2179)
31 Harvey, C. T., Qureshi, S. A., MacIsaac, H. J. 2009 Detection of a colonizing, aquatic, non-indigenous
species. Diversity and Distributions. 15, 429-437. (10.1111/j.1472-4642.2008.005500.x)
32 Perry, J. N. 1996 Simulating spatial patterns of counts in agriculture and ecology. Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture. 15, 93-109. (10.1016/0168-1699(96)00005-1)
33 Turner, S. J. 1993 Soil sampling to detect potato cyst-nematodes (Globodera spp.). Annals of applied
biology. 123, 349-357. (10.1111/j.1744-7348.1993.tb04097.x)
34 Lindström, T., Håkansson, N., Wennergren, U. 2011 The shape of the spatial kernel and its implications for
biological invasions in patchy environments. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 278,
1564-1571. (10.1098/rspb.2010.1902)
35 Renton, M., Shackelford, N., Standish, R. J. 2012 Habitat restoration will help some functional plant types
persist under climate change in fragmented landscapes. Global Change Biology. 18, 2057-2070.
(10.1111/j.1365-2486.2012.0.2677.x)
36 Renton, M., Shackelford, N., Standish, R. 2014 How will climate variability interact with long-term climate
change to affect the persistance of plant species in fragmented landscapes? Environmental Conservation. 41,
110-121. (10.1017/S0376892913000490)
37 Gaston, K. J. 1994 What is rarity? Netherlands: Springer.
38 Coutts, S., van Klinken, R., Yokomizo, H., Buckley, Y. 2011 What are the key drivers of spread in invasive
plants: dispersal, demography or landscape: and how can we use this knowledge to aid management? Biol
Invasions. 13, 1649-1661. (10.1007/s10530-010-9922-5)
39 With, K. A. 2002 The Landscape Ecology of Invasive Spread. Conservation Biology. 16, 1192-1203.
(10.1046/j.1523-1739.2002.01064.x)
40 Parnell, S., Gottwald, T., Van Den Bosch, F., Gilligan, C. 2009 Optimal strategies for the eradication of
asiatic citrus canker in heterogeneous host landscapes. Phytopathology. 99, 1370-1376. (10.1094/PHYTO-99-
12-1370)
41 Epanchin-Niell, R. S., Haight, R. G., Berec, L., Kean, J. M., Liebhold, A. M., Regan, H. 2012 Optimal
surveillance and eradication of invasive species in heterogeneous landscapes. Ecology Letters. 15, 803-812.
(10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01800.x)
Table 1 The spread model parameters and outputs used in this study (outputs in bold)
Symbol Explanation Units, Value/Range
pmax Maximum number offspring/generation 10000
r0 Rate of spread 1.0 m/year
t0 Start of reproduction 5 months
t50 Time at which 50% of the offspring max is reached 15 months
pestab Proportion of offspring that establish 0.01
d50 Distance traversed by 50% of the pests 0.005 - 1.5 m
d99 Distance traversed by 99% of the pests 5 or 10 m
pdetect Likelihood that the pest is detected if present 0.01, 0.25, 0.75 1.00
T Time to detection 0-400 months
Maxdist Maximum distance travelled at time T 0-300 m
Nofields Number of fields infested at time T 1-25 fields
Area Area infested (1x1 m pixels) at time T 0-250,000 m2
E Number of escapes 0-Inf
12
Table 2 The d50 and d99 values used in each dispersal kernel to simulate dispersal and spread. Dispersal
kernel formulas: exponential, f(x) = <U+03BB>e-<U+03BB>x and Weibull, f(x) = k<U+03BB>xk-1e(-<U+03BB>xk)
Abbreviation Dispersal kernel d50 d99 k <U+03BB>
log<U+2061>(0.5) * 1.0857
5( )
Exp Exponential log<U+2061>(0.01) 5
log<U+2061>(0.5) * 2.1715
10 ( )
Exp+ Exponential log<U+2061>(0.01) 10
Wei Weibull 0.05 5 0.4112 0.1219
Wei- Weibull 0.025 2.5 0.4112 0.0610
Wei+ Weibull 0.0005 5 0.2056 0.0030
*The scale parameter (k) is not relevant for the Exponential kernels.
13
Society Open
