Harem-holding males do not rise to the challenge:
Androgens respond to social but not seasonal challenges in
wild geladas
David J. Pappano and Jacinta C. Beehner
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140081.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140081
Review timeline
Final acceptance: 12 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 August 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Original submission: 3 June 2014 appears in reverse date order, with the latest
correspondence first.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter
04-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Beehner
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140081 entitled
"Harem-holding males do not rise to the challenge: Androgens respond to social but not seasonal
challenges in wild geladas" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you could actually submit sooner than
this time, that would be very helpful, and allow us enough time to typeset your paper and have it
ready for our online hosts in time for publication with the launch of the journal.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author response
See Appendix A.
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Please state any conflict(s) of interest that you have in relation to the review of this paper
None
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
All adequate and clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
I am positively surprised about the quality of this manuscript.
Dr Antje Engelhardt
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Please state any conflict(s) of interest that you have in relation to the review of this paper
None
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision
Comments to the Author(s)
See Appendix B.
Dr Beate Apfelbeck
seasonal challenges in wild geladas” (RSOS-140081)
We sincerely appreciate the comments of the two reviewers. We hope the editor and the reviewers find our
revisions acceptable for publication.
Comments from Reviewer 1
*Line 20: in the absence of?*
Changed.
*Leave a space between words and citations.*
We have made this change throughout the manuscript.
*Were samples run in one assay? How many assays did you run?*
We ran a total of 57 (DSL=33, Pantex=24) assays for the 2730 samples. All samples were run in duplicate. We
have now added this information to the Supplemental Material.
*Your statistics would be easier to understand if you mentioned here briefly (within the manuscript) that you
had to control for the use of two different antibodies.*
We have now added more detail on our methods-based controls within the manuscript L254-265 (as well as in
the Supplemental Material).
*In the supplementary material I would find it useful if you report the statistical effect/magnitude of the effect of
the two different antibodies used.*
We have now included this information in the Supplemental Material.
*Line 212: include a heading “statistics” or similar*
AND
*Line 229-241: as these are the general statistical methods you have used, I would place them at the beginning
of the statistical section (below new header „statistics“) and adjust accordingly.*
We appreciate the suggestion to have a special section entitled “statistics” to help guide the reader. However,
because we have such different statistics for each question, we felt it might be more useful to organize the
methods section around the question (rather than all the statistics used in the entire manuscript). We felt that this
form of organization would better serve readers who may be more interested in one question over another.
*Line 235: methods-based fixed effects: explain briefly here or in RIA section. At the moment it is not clear at
all what this should be unless you read the supplemental material which many readers might not do.*
See above and Supplemental Material.
*Did you check the residuals if the assumptions of the LMM were met?*
Thank you for pointing this out. This was a critical omission on our part, we did indeed check residuals of all
*Line 248/249: Testosterone values used in this analysis were probably taken throughout the year? Then
seasonality might matter. For example, if the sample 3 months before was taken during the end of the year for
bachelors and the takeover took place during the dry season then testosterone levels would be automatically
higher during/after the takeover, but it may be only a seasonal effect (also in LMM in next section). Please also
state during which time of the year faecal samples for this analysis were obtained.*
The reviewer highlights an important concern in this analysis. The mean date of takeover in our population is
May 1, thus the majority of samples are collected during the dry season (the dry season usually begins in late
September). Only 2 of 29 males involved in these takeovers have samples that bridge seasons (i.e. the takeover
consists of samples on both sides of the “seasonal” divide). Our results remain consistent if we exclude this
takeover.
*Line 273: were not all testosterone data log-transformed?*
Yes. We state this in L286.
*Line 277: why are age and days after takeover (days until acquisition of a fecal sample?) correlated? They
seem to me to be completely unrelated variables.*
Because age is estimated for each day, it is positively correlated with days after a takeover. For example, if a
male is of an estimated age X on Day 0 (the day of a takeover), then he is at age X+100 on Day 100 post-
takeover.
*Line 288. What is unit males?*
Unit males include both “leaders” and “followers”. We have clarified this terminology L214-215.
*Figures: indicate dry and wet seasons graphically*
We have now added an additional figure (now Fig 2) showing minimum and maximum temperature as well as
rainfall. Figures have been renumbered to accommodate this change.
*Despite being able to breed year round is there a peak mating season? I guess gelada males do not participate
in parental care?*
Geladas do not have a peak mating season, nor do males participate in paternal care. We have clarified this in
the Introduction L153-154.
Reviewer 2
We are grateful for the nice words of praise from reviewer 2.
*The only change I would suggest is to write "testosterone levels" instead of testosterone (e.g. lines 28, 29, 43
etc.).*
We have now changed the wording to “testosterone levels” throughout manuscript.
pendix B
very nice paper explores the role of testosterone in male geladas. It refers to the
allenge hypothesis” and the need to disentangle seasonal and social short-term
cts. Geladas show seasonal variation in testosterone depending on social status and
pond with a increase in testosterone to a social challenge. Very nice introduction and
ussion. They are fun to read and still encompass all relevant literature. Statistics
tion should be reorganized to obtain more clarity. Furthermore, the way the
hods/results are presented I am not yet convinced that seasonal effects do not
ence your social effects (see comments below). This could, however, have a
ound effect on your results and conclusions.
mary:
20: in the absence of?
ve a space between words and citations.
erial and Methods/Supplementary Material:
205-211:
re samples run in one assay? How many assays did you run?
r statistics would be easier to understand if you mentioned here briefly (within the
nuscript) that you had to control for the use of two different antibodies.
he supplementary material I would find it useful if you report the statistical
ct/magnitude of the effect of the two different antibodies used.
212: include a heading „statistics“ or similar
229-241: as these are the general statistical methods you have used, I would place
m at the beginning of the statistical section (below new header „statistics“) and adjust
ordingly.
235: methods-based fixed effects: explain briefly here or in RIA section. At the
ment it is not clear at all what this should be unless you read the supplemental
erial which many readers might not do.
you check the residuals if the assumptions of the LMM were met?
247: what is „of all male testosterone“?
247: did you use these residuals also in the other analysis (see graphs)?
248/249: Testosterone values used in this analysis were probably taken throughout
year? Then seasonality might matter. For example, if the sample 3 months before
taken during the end of the year for bachelors and the takeover took place during
dry season then testosterone levels would be automatically higher during/after the
over, but it may be only a seasonal effect (also in LMM in next section). Please also
e during which time of the year faecal samples for this analysis were obtained.
273: were not all testosterone data log-transformed?
277: why are age and days after takeover (days until acquisition of a fecal sample?)
elated? They seem to me to be completely unrelated variables.
ults:
285: that this is antibody and wash should already be mentioned in the methods
tion.
288. What is unit males?
ures: indicate dry and wet seasons graphically
cussion:
pite being able to breed year round is there a peak mating season? I guess gelada
es do not participate in parental care?
might be an interesting article to consider:
schenhauser, Gahr & Goymann 2013)
henhauser, K., Gahr, M. and Goymann, W. (2013). Winning and losing in public: audiences direct
future success in Japanese quail. Hormones and Behavior 63, 625-633.
Society Open
