1
Frog tongue acts as muscle-powered adhesive tape
Thomas Kleinteich and Stanislav N. Gorb
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150333.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150333
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 July 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 3 September 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 September 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: Transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150333.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I believe that this paper is a good first step into figuring out the frog tongue adhesion mechanism
and can be another source of inspiration for the adhesion community. Mechanical properties of
the tongue and the material properties of the mucus are crucial to enable a synthetic design and
are in my opinion as important as the mechanism of attachment and detachment.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Serkan Erdogan)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The all parts of the text are adequate for readers.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript entitled "Frog tongue acts as muscle powered adhesive tape" by Kleinteich and
Gorb aimed aimed to detect the morphofunbctional features of the frog tongue by using
important methods in the addition to review the literature and comparing their previous findings
with the literature. Manuscirpt was very interesting and well designed and included many
important results with detailed analyses. It is suitable for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
Dr. Serkan Erdogan
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150333)
01-Sep-2015
Dear Dr Kleinteich
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150333 entitled
"Frog tongue acts as muscle powered adhesive tape" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The referee(s) do not recommend any further changes. Therefore, please proof-read your
manuscript carefully and upload your final files for publication. Because the schedule for
publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the revised version of
3
your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let
me know immediately. Please also ensure that your revised manuscript contains the following
sections.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150333
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 10-Sep-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Ms Emilie Aime):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I believe that this paper is a good first step into figuring out the frog tongue adhesion mechanism
and can be another source of inspiration for the adhesion community. Mechanical properties of
the tongue and the material properties of the mucus are crucial to enable a synthetic design and
are in my opinion as important as the mechanism of attachment and detachment.
5
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript entitled "Frog tongue acts as muscle powered adhesive tape" by Kleinteich and
Gorb aimed aimed to detect the morphofunbctional features of the frog tongue by using
important methods in the addition to review the literature and comparing their previous findings
with the literature. Manuscirpt was very interesting and well designed and included many
important results with detailed analyses. It is suitable for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
Dr. Serkan Erdogan
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150333
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150333
MS Title: Frog tongue acts as muscle powered adhesive tape
MS Authors: Kleinteich, Thomas; Gorb, Stanislav
Contact Author: Thomas Kleinteich
Contact Author Email: tkleinteich@zoologie.uni-kiel.de
Contact Author Address 1: Am Botanischen Garten 9
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Kiel
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: Germany
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 24118
Keywords: Adhesion, Biomaterials, Feeding, Amphibians, Biomechanics
Abstract: Frogs are well known to capture fast moving prey by flicking their sticky tongues out of
the mouth. This tongue projection behavior happens extremely fast which makes frog tongues a
biological high-speed adhesive system. The processes at the interface between tongue and prey,
and thus the mechanism of adhesion, however, are completely unknown. Here, we captured the
contact mechanics of frog tongues by filming tongue adhesion at 2,000 frames/s through an
illuminated glass. We found that the tongue rolls over the target during attachment. However,
during the pulling phase, the tongue retractor muscle acts perpendicular to the target surface and
thus prevents peeling during tongue retraction. When the tongue detaches, mucus fibrils form
between the tongue and the target. Fibrils commonly occur in pressure sensitive adhesives and
thus frog tongues might be a biological analogue to these engineered materials. The fibrils in frog
tongues are related to the presence of microscopic papillae on the surface. Together with a layer
of nano-scale fibers underneath the tongue epithelium, these surface papillae will make the
tongue adaptable to asperities. For the first time, we are able to integrate anatomy and function to
explain the processes during adhesion in frog tongues.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150333)
See Appendix A.
. Thomas Kleinteich
nctional Morphology and Biomechanics
el University
m Botanischen Garten 1-9
118 Kiel
ail: tkleinteich@zoologie.uni-kiel.de
milie Aime
nior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Kiel, September 3, 2015
ear Emilie Aime,
ease find attached our revised manuscript entitled “Frog tongue acts as muscle powered adhesive tape”,
hich was recently accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science (ID: RSOS-150333).
nce both reviewers did not mention anything that needed to be changed, I only made some minor
odifications to the original file to match the journal guidelines and to reduce a few typos. In detail, the
llowing changes were made.
ge 4, line 20: moved the ethics statement to the end of the main text body under a separate heading
ge 4, line 24: changed “…each experiment” to “…each experimental trial”
ge 5, line 16: changed “…relative to axis” to “…relative to the axis”
ge 7, line 10: inserted a sentence “The reconstructed micro-CT datasets for each scan are available online
http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.066mr.”
ge 14, line 16: inserted a paragraph to the Data accessibility section “Micro-CT datasets: Micro-CT
tasets of the head, tongue, and tongue tissue of Ceratophrys ornata are available at the Dryad repository
der the following link: http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.066mr.”
ge 14, line 23: modified Author’s contribution section according to formatting guidelines
ge 23, line 5: substituted “stress distribution” with “force distribution” in the legend of Figure 3 to be more
nsistent throughout the manuscript
ours sincerely,
omas Kleinteich
Society Open
