Structures of pyruvate kinases display evolutionarily
divergent allosteric strategies
Hugh P. Morgan, Wenhe Zhong, Iain W. McNae, Paul A.M. Michels, Linda A. Fothergill-
Gilmore and Malcolm D. Walkinshaw
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140120.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140120
Review timeline
Final acceptance: 11 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 August 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Original submission: 18 June 2014 appears in reverse date order, with the latest
correspondence first.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter
04-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Walkinshaw,
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140120 entitled
"Structures of pyruvate kinases display evolutionarily divergent allosteric strategies" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author response
See Appendix A.
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Please state any conflict(s) of interest that you have in relation to the review of this paper.
None
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supplementary material provided and clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes the kinetic and structural properties of T. cruzi PYK and compares these
properties to those of other pathogenic protists and human PYKs. The findings have added to our
understanding of the evolution of the allosteric control mechanisms of PYK and strengthen the
argument for disrupting allosteric interactions as a means of drug design. A number of minor
revisions are recommended: 1. Remove repetition of section in abstract 2. At the start of
Background give PYK EC number 3. 'There are no structural data' to 'There is no structural data'
on page 4 4. Change from 'saturated PEP/ADP' to 'Saturating concentrations of' on page 5 5. Give
range of F16P and F26P studied on page 6 6. New subheading for DLS on page 6 7. Start of
Results/Discussion - Omit TbPYK kinetic data reporting – this was gathered in ref 14 and the
gathering of TbPYK data is not noted in the methods section. This will require a rewrite of the
first sub-section of the results/discussion on page 8. 8. Add 'suggested' to read 'Based on the
suggested relative cellular concentration of the FBPs' on page 8. 9. Remove the sentence starting
'Indeed these results are as expected' and correct use of the term 'Protomers' on p9 10. On page 12
Consider other explanations of activity/stability relationship. Suggested change '…We suggest
that the 16-fold increase in specificity constant results from stabilisation of the tetramer and
promotes conformational states which favour substrate binding (8.6 decrease in S0.5) and/or
catalytic activity and/or product release.' 11. Omit 'closely' on p13 12. Figure 1 – switch a and b to
introduce domains and associated ligands and their colour codes before describing tetramer.
Plus, give PDB codes. 13. Figure 2 - need to explain colouring of asterisks. Give access codes and
references for sequences. 14. Figure 4 – briefly outline of method used to superimpose F16BP and
F26BP from other structures.
Dr Jacqueline Nairn
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Please state any conflict(s) of interest that you have in relation to the review of this paper.
None
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
A statement is needed that structural data have been deposited with the Protein Data Bank
4
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes the characterisation of the allosteric behaviour of pyruvate kinase from
kinetoplastid parasites. The paper presents kinetic data on pyruvate kinase (PYK) from T. cruzi
and crystal structures of the same enzyme in apo (T-state) and effector-bound (R-state) forms. It
also presents thermal shift data on effector binding to T cruzi and human enzymes. The data are
succinctly presented and the paper concludes with an interesting and useful comparison of the
different strategies used in bacterial, parasite and human pyruvate kinases to bring about the
transition from the lower activity T state to the higher affinity R state. Points Additional comment
on the basis of the thermal shift assay would be helpful. What is important here, the magnitude of
the change in Tm or the effector concentration at which it takes place? Also why are different
techniques used for the parasite and human enzymes? There is a case for moving Figures S1a, S2a
and S3 to the main section. If space is limiting Figure 2 could become Supplementary. The
labelling in Figure 3 particularly 3d and 3e needs to be enlarged A brief comment on the use of
S0.5 rather than KM is warranted. Also Ka0.5 needs to be defined. Specify the source of LDH.
Figure 4 is crowded. The authors should consider stereo, or at least making it available in a
Supplementary Figure. Also in the legend, what is each Figure is ‘enlarged’ with respect to? In
Figure S1, it is said ‘Phe213 which potentially favours the binding of oxalate in the correct
position’. What does correct mean? Perhaps the authors could briefly contrast PYK allostery with
that in haemoglobin. In Hb another glycolytic factor 2,3 DPG binds and stabilises subunit
interactions in a tetramer only in this case it is the T-state. I did not find reference to PDB
submission.
Appendix A
Dear Editor
Thank you for your e-mail of 4th August with referees comments on our manuscript ‘Structures of
pyruvate kinases display evolutionary divergent allosteric mechanisms’ .
We have modified the manuscript to comply with the referees’ suggestions as described in detail
below.
We hope that these changes now make the manuscript suitable for publication.
Yours sincerely
Malcolm Walkinshaw
Response to referees
Reviewer: 1
This paper describes the kinetic and structural properties of T. cruzi PYK and compares these
properties to those of other pathogenic protists and human PYKs. The findings have added to our
understanding of the evolution of the allosteric control mechanisms of PYK and strengthen the
argument for disrupting allosteric interactions as a means of drug design. A number of minor
revisions are recommended:
1. Remove repetition of section in abstract
We would prefer to leave the abstract as it stands as it is not clear what information is
duplicated.
2. At the start of Background give PYK EC number
Done ‘Pyruvate kinase (PYK, EC 2.7.1.40) catalyses the final step in glycolysis’
3. There are no structural data' to 'There is no structural data' on page 4.
This is an editorial decision, but as the word ‘data’ is the plural of ‘datum’, it presumably
needs the plural form of a verb.
4. Change from 'saturated PEP/ADP' to 'Saturating concentrations of' on page 5 Done
5. Give range of F16P and F26P studied on page 6 . Done
‘ variable concentrations of F26BP (from 0 to 1 µM), while enzyme kinetics with regard to
the effector F16BP was studied at 2.5 mM ADP, 0.7 mM PEP and variable concentrations of
F16BP (from 0 to 4.5 mM).’
6. New subheading for DLS on page 6
A subheading ‘Dynamic Light Scattering’ has been added and text has been modified
accordingly
7. Start of Results/Discussion - Omit TbPYK kinetic data reporting – this was gathered in ref 14
and the gathering of TbPYK data is not noted in the methods section. This will require a
rewrite of the first sub-section of the results/discussion on page 8.
We have made modifications to the text to incorporate this point.
8. Add 'suggested' to read 'Based on the suggested relative cellular concentration of the FBPs'
on page 8. Done
9. Remove the sentence starting 'Indeed these results are as expected' and correct use of the
term 'Protomers' on p9
The sentence is deleted, and the word ‘subunits’ replaces ‘protomers’.
10. On page 12 Consider other explanations of activity/stability relationship. Suggested change
'…We suggest that the 16-fold increase in specificity constant results from stabilisation of
the tetramer and promotes conformational states which favour substrate binding (8.6
decrease in S0.5) and/or catalytic activity and/or product release.' The text has been
modified accordingly.
11. Omit 'closely' on p13 Done
12. Figure 1 – switch a and b to introduce domains and associated ligands and their colour codes
before describing tetramer. Plus, give PDB codes.
The two parts of the figure have been switched, and consequent changes made to the figure
legend and to page 3 and to pages 9 and 10. The PDB ID codes have been added.
13. Figure 2 - need to explain colouring of asterisks. Give access codes and references for
sequences
The figure legend has been modified to explain the colouring of asterisks, and the access
codes and references for the sequences have been added.
14. Figure 4 – briefly outline of method used to superimpose F16BP and F26BP from other
structures New text has been added to the legend of what is now Figure 6.
Reviewer: 2
This paper describes the characterisation of the allosteric behaviour of pyruvate kinase from
kinetoplastid parasites. The paper presents kinetic data on pyruvate kinase (PYK) from T. cruzi and
crystal structures of the same enzyme in apo (T-state) and effector-bound (R-state) forms. It also
presents thermal shift data on effector binding to T cruzi and human enzymes. The data are
succinctly presented and the paper concludes with an interesting and useful comparison of the
different strategies used in bacterial, parasite and human pyruvate kinases to bring about the
transition from the lower activity T state to the higher affinity R state.
Points
Additional comment on the basis of the thermal shift assay would be helpful. What is important
here, the magnitude of the change in Tm or the effector concentration at which it takes place? Also
why are different techniques used for the parasite and human enzymes?
These points have been taken on board, and incorporated into the changes described under point 6
of Reviewer 1. DLS was used as an orthogonal approach to determine protein melting temperatures
and to check that the Tm values measured by Differential Scanning Fluorimetry were consistent and
free from any artefact that could have been caused by the dye molecules in the assay.
There is a case for moving Figures S1a, S2a and S3 to the main section. If space is limiting Figure 2
could become Supplementary.
Figures S1a, S2a and S3 are moved to the main paper, and have been renumbered as Figures 3, 4
and 7. The figure legends have been modified accordingly. Figure 2 is retained in the main paper.
Figures S1b and c, S2b are retained in the Supplementary data, and have been renumbered and the
legends modified accordingly.
The labelling in Figure 3 particularly 3d and 3e needs to be enlarged. Done
A brief comment on the use of S0.5 rather than KM is warranted. Also Ka0.5 needs to be defined.
Two sentences are added to the end of the experimental section on enzyme activity on page 6.
Specify the source of LDH. LDH was from rabbit muscle, and is now indicated in the materials section
on page 5.
Figure 4 is crowded. The authors should consider stereo, or at least making it available in a
Supplementary Figure. Also in the legend, what is each Figure is ‘enlarged’ with respect to?
Both parts of this figure (now Figure 6) have been changed to stereo format. The words ‘An
enlarged’ have been replaced by ‘A close-up’.
In Figure S1, it is said ‘Phe213 which potentially favours the binding of oxalate in the correct
position’. What does correct mean? The text has been modified to explain that the oxalate is in the
same pose as the substrate PEP.
Perhaps the authors could briefly contrast PYK allostery with that in haemoglobin. In Hb another
glycolytic factor 2,3 DPG binds and stabilises subunit interactions in a tetramer only in this case it is
the T-state
This is an interesting suggestion and worth following up, however, we feel that a relatively detailed
structural comparison would be required in order to draw any useful conclusions and that is beyond
the scope of this paper.
I did not find reference to PDB submission. These are given on page 13 under the heading ‘Data
Accessibility’.
Society Open
