A cryptic Allee effect: spatial contexts mask an existing
fitness–density relationship
Akira Terui, Yusuke Miyazaki, Akira Yoshioka and Shin-ichiro S. Matsuzaki
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150034.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150034
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 May 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150034.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear from reading the paper how to access all supporting data. The supplementary is
however not already available on Dryad.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I received this manuscript for review as a revision after a previous submission to Proc. R. Soc. B.
As before, this manuscript addresses the understudied question of the lack of empirical
demonstration of Allee effects compared to theory, and brings evidence of a component Allee
effect under specific environmental conditions. A careful check reveals that the authors dealt
adequately with my comments. I was especially pleased to see that the authors adopted a more
careful attitude concerning their conclusions in the present manuscript. I also think that they
addressed the other comments well. I still think that the question addressed in this study is of
great importance, and I believe this current version meets the requirements of scientific
soundness required by Royal Society Open Science. I only have very few minor comments:
181: Binomial distributions are usually written Binomial(n,p) and not Binomial(p,n)
465, 477 and 486: I would rather say “dots” than “plots”
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150034)
30-Apr-2015
Dear Professor Terui
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150034 entitled
"A cryptic Allee effect: spatial contexts mask an existing fitness–density relationship" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
3
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-May-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
4
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
This manuscript has been re-evaluated by one of the original reviewers. Obviously, the authors
addressed all initial concerns raised by the reviewers. There is two minor suggestions pointed out
by the reviewer, which the authors should revise in their final version.
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I received this manuscript for review as a revision after a previous submission to Proc. R. Soc. B.
As before, this manuscript addresses the understudied question of the lack of empirical
demonstration of Allee effects compared to theory, and brings evidence of a component Allee
effect under specific environmental conditions. A careful check reveals that the authors dealt
adequately with my comments. I was especially pleased to see that the authors adopted a more
careful attitude concerning their conclusions in the present manuscript. I also think that they
addressed the other comments well. I still think that the question addressed in this study is of
great importance, and I believe this current version meets the requirements of scientific
soundness required by Royal Society Open Science. I only have very few minor comments:
181: Binomial distributions are usually written Binomial(n,p) and not Binomial(p,n)
465, 477 and 486: I would rather say “dots” than “plots”
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150034)
7-May-2015
Title: Re: RSOS-150034 "A cryptic Allee effect: spatial contexts mask an existing fitness–density
relationship"
Authors: Akira Terui, Yusuke Miyazaki, Akira Yoshioka, Shin-ichiro S. Matsuzaki
Dear Editor,
We received your letter dated April 30, 2015. Thank you for your careful review and favorable
considerations. We have revised the manuscript in light of the comments from reviewers. Also,
we have revised “Authorship”, “Acknowledgements” and “Funding statement” as suggested.
5
Please note that our response to reviewer’s comments is shown in red, and line numbers in our
responses refer to the revised manuscript. In the revised manuscript, sentences with any
correction were highlighted.
Sincerely yours,
Akira Terui
Response to reviewers Reviewer 1:
L. 181: Binomial distributions are usually written Binomial(n,p) and not Binomial(p,n) - We have
corrected this as Binomial(n, p) (L.182).
L. 465, 477 and 486: I would rather say “dots” than “plots” - We have corrected these as “dots”
(L. 464, 477, 486).
Society Open
