New information on Brindabellaspis stensioi Young, 1980,
highlights morphological disparity in Early Devonian
placoderms
Benedict King, Gavin C. Young and John A. Long
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180094.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180094
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 April 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 26 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180094.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Dupret et al. have set the gold standard for this type of synchrotron-based study, and since
Romundina is an important comparison to Brindabellaspis, it's disappointing to see very little
actual segmentation in this manuscript (see also Castello and Brazeau 2018 for Shearsbyaspis).
It's no longer good enough to label morphological features on photographs (eg., perichondral
plexus, Figure 5), when you have a synchrotron scan to work with.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Per Ahlberg)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
It is very nice to see that this work, which adds substantially to our understanding of
Brindabellaspis, is now ready for publication. It will form an important contribution to the
literature on the earliest and most primitive jawed vertebrates, and I am happy to recommend
publication. As usual there are a few problems to deal with, but they are really quite minor and
should not cause you any difficulties.
Page 8, line 39: the sentence beginning "A similar interpretation..." seems to be in the wrong place.
It would make much more sense if it swapped places with the next sentence, "Young [2]
suggested...".
P. 8, last line (and elsewhere): here you speak of a CT scan, but in the Materials section you
describe a synchrotron microtomography scan. These are not interchangeable terms: please use
"synchrotron scan" or "synchrotron microtomography scan" throughout.
3
Figure 4: Could you produce a side view reconstruction as well? It would be really useful, and
the good 3D preservation of the material should ensure its accuracy.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see attached file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180094.R0)
13-Mar-2018
Dear Mr King,
The editors assigned to your paper ("New information on Brindabellaspis stensioi Young, 1980,
highlights morphological disparity in Early Devonian placoderms") have now received
comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the
referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 05-Apr-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
4
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180094
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
5
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Maximilian Telford (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Maximilian Telford):
A nice paper with some work to do to ready it for publication. Although one referee feels
segmentation of the synchrotron scans is essential, having consulted the other referees on balance
I do not think it necessary to insist on this. Other referees comments do need addressing.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Dupret et al. have set the gold standard for this type of synchrotron-based study, and since
Romundina is an important comparison to Brindabellaspis, it's disappointing to see very little
6
actual segmentation in this manuscript (see also Castello and Brazeau 2018 for Shearsbyaspis).
It's no longer good enough to label morphological features on photographs (eg., perichondral
plexus, Figure 5), when you have a synchrotron scan to work with.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
It is very nice to see that this work, which adds substantially to our understanding of
Brindabellaspis, is now ready for publication. It will form an important contribution to the
literature on the earliest and most primitive jawed vertebrates, and I am happy to recommend
publication. As usual there are a few problems to deal with, but they are really quite minor and
should not cause you any difficulties.
Page 8, line 39: the sentence beginning "A similar interpretation..." seems to be in the wrong place.
It would make much more sense if it swapped places with the next sentence, "Young [2]
suggested...".
P. 8, last line (and elsewhere): here you speak of a CT scan, but in the Materials section you
describe a synchrotron microtomography scan. These are not interchangeable terms: please use
"synchrotron scan" or "synchrotron microtomography scan" throughout.
Figure 4: Could you produce a side view reconstruction as well? It would be really useful, and
the good 3D preservation of the material should ensure its accuracy.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180094.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180094.R1)
26-Apr-2018
Dear Mr King,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "New information on Brindabellaspis
stensioi Young, 1980, highlights morphological disparity in Early Devonian placoderms" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
7
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Maximilian Telford (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Maximilian Telford):
Thank you for thoroughly dealing with the comments of the three referees.
pendix A
neral comments
his manuscript, the authors describe additional specimens of the enigmatic
coderm’ Brindabellaspis. These new specimens preserve previously unknown
tures of the rostral region, and have the potential to aid in our understanding of
coderm relationships. While the figures are generally good (although could be larger:
se set to 2/3 page width could easily be made full page width; also not all specimens
figured) and the description solid, the structure of the manuscript as a whole needs
ising significantly
e abstract needs revisiting to be brought in line with the generally accepted scientific
tract structure. There are several sentences of results, but very little to set the
text or why this specific taxon is instrumental in tackling it (other than a vague call
to ‘early gnathostome phylogeny’), and no summary sentence highlighting the
ortance of the new findings or the broader implications of these new findings; it was
eady clear from previous descriptions that this taxon was unusual in its morphology.
e introduction is vague in places and rather skims over the general context of the
dy (see detailed notes below).
e systematic palaeontology section is hard to follow, in large part due to the complex
onomic history of this taxon and the poorly supported groups to which it has been
liated. I suggest that this section is rewritten in order to make it flow more logically - it
urrently very convoluted. Perhaps a more chronological order, with more explicit
lanation of the varying status and validity of ‘rhenanids’ and ‘acanthothoricids’ and
w these two putative groups relate to one another. E.g: Brindabellaspis has variously
en considered to be related to ‘rhenanids’ and ‘acanthothoricids’, two putatively
nophyletic groups of ‘placoderms’ with problematic histories. Then explain the
icacies of each group (including taxonomic history, characters, and the status of
h with regard to modern phylogenetic analyses), and how Brindabellaspis has been
iably placed within each, and the associated problems with trying to place
ndabellaspis (e.g. variable preservation of other taxa).
e results section is a mixture of actual results (i.e. describing the anatomy) and
cussion (i.e. both comparing the new specimens to previous descriptions and
mparing the anatomy to other placoderms). These sections need to be separated out.
e results section should be entirely reserved for describing the morphology, with
rpretations based on comparisons to other taxa moved to the discussion.
e discussion is very poorly developed, with only short sections on rostral tubules and
logy of the taxon. This is largely because the ‘results’ section is actually a mash of
ults and discussion. As mentioned below, all comparisons to previous descriptions of
ndabellaspis need to be pulled out (this could be section 1 of the discussion), as do
comparisons to other ‘placoderms’ (this could be section 2). There is also no
cussion of ‘acanthothoracid’ monophyly vs paraphyly (this could be incorporated into
tion 2 or separated into section 3), or the phylogenetic position of Brindabellaspis
ative to other ‘acanthothoracids’ and ‘placoderms’ more widely. These topics are
ught up in the introduction and deserve consideration in the discusssion.
a final note, the scare quotes around ‘acanthothoracids’ and ‘rhenanids’ are variably
pped – they should be used consistently throughout the text. Also, ‘placoderm’ is not
care quotes, despite the majority of recent phylogenetic analyses recovering
coderm’ paraphyly.
tailed comments:
oduction, para 1: Expand more on the problems with ‘placoderm’ interrelationships
e, particularly with respect to ‘rhenanids’ and ‘acanthothoracids’. This need only be a
tence or two referencing the varying support for monophyly or paraphyly of these
emblages, with more detailed consideration in the systematic palaeo section.
oduction, para 2: The use of the word ‘group’ implies monophyly, but the next
tence makes it clear that the supposed characters are widely distributed. Change to
semblage’ or ‘putative group’.
oduction, para 2: What exactly is meant by ‘basal position’? Expand on this more.
ndabellaspis is typically recovered as one of the earliest diverging placoderms, but it
ften recovered in a polytomy with a subset of petalichthyids and/or antiarchs, or
wnward of antiarchs. This sentence should also be referenced more thoroughly,
ecially with other analyses that are cited elsewhere in the text already. Ditto the
tence about ‘placoderm’ monophyly vs paraphyly.
oduction, para 4: While it’s useful to have a sentence summing up the importance of
specimen (i.e. it preserved the ethmoid region) how the specimen was studied (i.e.
scanning) and setting the results in context (i.e. it tells up more about dermal bone
terns in early diverging placoderms and expands the ecological diversity of the
ality), this paragraph veers into results and thus needs to be heavily edited.
stematic Palaeontology: Some of this should be moved into the introduction to set up
problem from the beginning of the manuscript. Also, please provide a citation for
bryological evidence from living groups was cited to support a ventral position for
al openings being the primitive condition.’
stematic Palaeontology, remarks section: The final sentence of this paragraph
esn’t logically flow from the body of the paragraph. Yes, the relationship of
ndabellaspis to other ‘placoderms’ is uncertain (although the references given above
m to resolve a fairly consistent position), but that’s not what this paragraph is about.
s paragraph is written about the uncertain status of ‘acanthothoracids’ as a
nophyletic group.
terials and methods. Refer to the relevant figure after each specimen is mentioned.
sults, pg 11 lines 9-10. If sutures are not visible, and the interpretation largely follows
ung, why has the rostropineal suddenly doubled in size? There is a dashed line,
ich (rightly) indicates uncertainty, but it’s not clear what is supporting the presumed
mination of this bone to be so much more anterior than in the Young
onstruction(s) and by comparison to other placoderms. The presumed nasal notch is
posterior of the dotted line.
sults para 2. I am not sure I agree with the interpretation of an extremely long
orbital (with fused PQ) attaching right the way along that overlap area. It seems
her implausible that the mouth would project so far anteriorly. An alternative might be
t the suborbital is restricted more posteriorly, with the anterior portion covered with
serae, as in petalichthyids (e.g. Lunaspis). This fits with the tubercles, and may also
p to support the hypothesis of a sensory function (as in paddlefish).
sults line 36. Label the median embayment. Is this an anatomical features or due to
tortion/breakage? It would be easier to tell if the broken margins of the bone were
ted in the figures (rather than the ’true’ shape being dotted in).
sults pg 9 lines 40-42. It’s not clear to me which feature the authors are referring to.
t the thing labelled ‘sor.a’ or the thing labelled ‘groove’? In the latter case, I think this
robably the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve (or buccal, depending on where
mouth ended relative to the groove).
sults pg 10 lines 49-52 Is the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve visible in your
cimen? Label it if so. Is it perhaps the ‘groove’ label in fig 1F?
y is there no mention of the hyoid articulation in the results section. It’s flagged up in
introduction as ‘of particular note’. If it’s not going to be described or even
ntioned in the new specimens (and thus not included in the results or discussion), it
eds to be cut from the intro, or that paragraph at least heavily truncated.
sults pg 11 line 17: I can’t find a figure for V1224 anywhere, which makes it difficult to
derstand what is meant by ‘irregular expansion towards the front’. All of the new
cimens should be figured (in a supplement if necessary).
sults pg 12 line 13 (and elsewhere): be consistent with the use of figure callouts - no
breviation or figure callout for the postnasal is given in the text here.
sults pg 12 line 26 The position of the nasal opening isn’t clear to me because ANU
224 isn’t figured. I would prefer to see it labelled on the actual specimen than just on
omposite reconstruction.
sults pg 13, line 43: Assuming, of course, that ‘acanthothoracids’ represent a clade,
which there us very little to no evidence! If anything, the additional characters
sented here provide even more evidence for ‘acanthothoracid’ paraphyly.
cussion pg 14 lines 8-9. I would be wary of suggesting this as an ‘acanthothoracid’
racter, given the limited number of ‘acanthothoracids’ (and other placoderms) in
ich it can be assessed.
ures 3A: This panel would be more informative if the canals were figures in ventral
w.
econstruction of the skull in lateral view would help (especially given reference to the
raordinarily deep skull).
Appendix B
We appreciate Associate Editor Dr Maximilian Telford’s comment: ‘a nice paper with some work to do
to ready it for publication’. We agree with and accept his advice that full segmentation of synchrotron
data is not necessary, as was requested by Reviewer 1. However all other reviewer comments have
been addressed in our extensive revision, as summarised below.
Reviewer 1
Response: We agree that Romundina is an important comparison with Brindabellaspis, but we had
already cited Dupret et al.’s work [refs 3, 10] and discussed all relevant points. A very recent
publication by Castello & Brazeau 2018 is mentioned. This appeared at the same time as our original
submission. We have referred to this new publication several times in our revision.
Reviewer 2
This reviewer states our MS ‘will form an important contribution … I am happy to recommend
publication’. The following minor issues have been fully addressed:
Page 8, line 39: ‘sentence beginning ‘A similar interpretation… seems to be in the wrong place’ etc.
Response: These sentences were indeed in the wrong order. However, they no longer exist following
our revisions.
Page 8, last line
Response: As requested, we have standardized terminology, and now use ‘sychrotron
microtomography’ throughout.
Reviewer 3_General comments
‘the figures are generally good (although could be larger: those set to 2/3 page width could easily be
made full page width; also not all specimens are figured)’.
Response: Figures are now set at full page width, and the additional specimens are now included
(revised Fig. 1).
‘the structure of the manuscript as a whole needs revising significantly’.
Response: We have done extensive revision, following this reviewer’s detailed comments [listed
below].
‘The abstract needs revisiting to be brought in line with the generally accepted scientific abstract
structure’.
Response: We have revised the abstract as requested, including more context and discussion, and a
‘summary sentence highlighting the importance of the new findings or the broader implications of
these new findings’.
The introduction is vague in places and rather skims over the general context of the
study (see detailed notes below).
Response: We have revised and expanded the Introduction to seven paragraphs, in accordance with
the Reviewer’s detailed comments listed below.
‘The systematic palaeontology section is hard to follow, in large part due to the complex taxonomic
history of this taxon and the poorly supported groups to which it has been affiliated. I suggest that
this section is rewritten ….’
Response: We agree that the complex taxonomic history of Brindabellaspis makes for difficulty in
comprehension. We have extensively modified this section as requested.
This is a ‘Remarks’ section, with the primary function to briefly summarise our systematic treatment of
the taxon Brindabellaspis. A ‘more explicit explanation of the varying status and validity of ‘rhenanids’
and ‘acanthothoracids’ and how these two putative groups relate to one another’, as requested here,
are broader questions covered more fully elsewhere in the manuscript (see revised ‘Introduction’ and
‘Discussion’ sections). We have added clarifying comments regarding ‘rhenanids’, and our modified
wording addresses all the detailed comments listed below.
‘The results section is a mixture of actual results (i.e. describing the anatomy) and
discussion … [and] should be entirely reserved for describing the morphology, with interpretations …
moved to the discussion’.
Response: We accept this, and have moved many sections ‘comparing the new specimens to previous
descriptions …. and the anatomy to other placoderms’ to the Discussion. However, a pure description
without any reference to previous description is not possible [‘all observations are theory-laden’: Karl
Popper]. Any new observations must be keyed to some extent to previous descriptions. Our rewritten
section addresses all the detailed comments listed below.
The discussion is very poorly developed, … largely because the ‘results’ section is actually a mash of
results and discussion.
Response: We accept this, and have followed the suggestion that ‘comparisons to previous
descriptions of Brindabellaspis’ … could be section 1 of the discussion’ and ‘comparisons to other
‘placoderms’ be removed from ‘Results’ to form …section 2 of ‘Discussion’.
Discussions of ‘acanthothoracid monophyly vs paraphyly’ and ‘the phylogenetic position of
Brindabellaspis relative to other ‘acanthothoracids’ and ‘placoderms’ more widely’ are now expanded
both in the Introduction and the Discussion.
On a final note, the scare quotes around ‘acanthothoracids’ and ‘rhenanids’ are variably dropped –
they should be used consistently throughout the text. Also, ‘placoderm’ is not in scare quotes, despite
the majority of recent phylogenetic analyses recovering ‘placoderm’ paraphyly.
Response: We now restrict the quotes to those parts of the text where monophyly vs. paraphyly is
discussed, but for brevity we have dropped them elsewhere. There is doubt surrounding the
monophyly of many of taxonomic groups, so adding quotes in all cases would make for very
cumbersome text; e.g. this is not done for ‘placoderms’ in the recent Castello & Brazeau 2018 paper,
even though placoderm monophyly or paraphyly is extensively discussed.
Reviewer 3_Detailed comments
Introduction, para 1: Expand more on the problems with ‘placoderm’ interrelationships here,
particularly with respect to ‘rhenanids’ and ‘acanthothoracids’. This need only be a sentence or two
referencing the varying support for monophyly or paraphyly of these assemblages, with more detailed
consideration in the systematic palaeo section.
Response: Accepted. Extra paragraphs 3-5 are now added to the Introduction expanding on the
question of placoderm inter-relationships, the status of ‘acanthothoracids’, etc.
Introduction, para 2: The use of the word ‘group’ implies monophyly, but the next
sentence makes it clear that the supposed characters are widely distributed. Change to ‘assemblage’
or ‘putative group’.
Response: Accepted, and changed to ‘assemblage’ [para 2 of revised Introduction].
Introduction, para 2: What exactly is meant by ‘basal position’? Expand on this more.
Brindabellaspis is typically recovered as one of the earliest diverging placoderms, but it is often
recovered in a polytomy with a subset of petalichthyids and/or antiarchs, or
crownward of antiarchs. This sentence should also be referenced more thoroughly,
especially with other analyses that are cited elsewhere in the text already. Ditto the
sentence about ‘placoderm’ monophyly vs paraphyly.
Response: As requested, this is expanded in our revised Introduction (new paras 2-5), and also in the
Discussion to include more detailed summaries of the position of Brindabellaspis, with each study fully
referenced.
Introduction, para 4: While it’s useful to have a sentence summing up the importance of the specimen
(i.e. it preserved the ethmoid region) how the specimen was studied (i.e. CT scanning) and setting the
results in context (i.e. it tells up more about dermal bone patterns in early diverging placoderms and
expands the ecological diversity of the locality), this paragraph veers into results and thus needs to be
heavily edited.
Response: Accepted. This paragraph has been strongly edited, with much of the text moved to
Discussion.
Systematic Palaeontology: Some of this should be moved into the introduction to set up the problem
from the beginning of the manuscript.
Response: Accepted. Now moved to the Introduction, with a reference to the systematic palaeontology
section provided in para 2.
Also, please provide a citation for ‘Embryological evidence from living groups was cited to support a
ventral position for nasal openings being the primitive condition.’
Response: Now included [ref 2].
Systematic Palaeontology, remarks section: The final sentence of this paragraph
doesn’t logically flow from the body of the paragraph.
Response: This sentence has been replaced with a more relevant final comment for the Remarks
section.
Materials and methods. Refer to the relevant figure after each specimen is mentioned.
Response: This is now done under Systematic Palaeontology, ‘New Skull material’ for all the new
specimens.
Results, pg 11 lines 9-10. If sutures are not visible, and the interpretation largely follows Young, why
has the rostropineal suddenly doubled in size? There is a dashed line, which (rightly) indicates
uncertainty, but it’s not clear what is supporting the presumed termination of this bone to be so much
more anterior than in the Young
reconstruction(s) and by comparison to other placoderms. The presumed nasal notch is far posterior of
the dotted line.
Response: The dashed line of Young’s previous reconstruction was in an entirely unknown part of the
skull [see our Fig. 4A], whereas the new specimens demonstrate great elongation of the rostral part,
so it is reasonable to infer the elongation may have involved other bones including the rostropineal. A
comparison with the elongate rostrum in some arthrodires shows varying conditions. As well as an
elongate rostral bone, there may be elongate pineal and preorbital bones (Carolowilhelmina), elongate
preorbitals only (Rolfosteus), or an elongate postnasal as well (Tubonasus). A brief comment on this
comparison is now added to the text.
Results para 2. I am not sure I agree with the interpretation of an extremely long
suborbital (with fused PQ) attaching right the way along that overlap area. It seems
rather implausible that the mouth would project so far anteriorly. An alternative might be that the
suborbital is restricted more posteriorly, with the anterior portion covered with tesserae, as in
petalichthyids (e.g. Lunaspis). This fits with the tubercles, and may also help to support the
hypothesis of a sensory function (as in paddlefish).
Response: This was a very useful suggestion. Based on our new lateral skull reconstruction, we have
considered this alternative interpretation, which may be more likely. There is now an extended
discussion of this in Section 5.1.
Results line 36. Label the median embayment. Is this an anatomical features or due to
distortion/breakage? It would be easier to tell if the broken margins of the bone were dotted in the
figures (rather than the ’true’ shape being dotted in).
Response: Now labelled in Fig. 2 . This structure is not ‘due to distortion/breakage’ – examination
under the microscope shows a section of the observed margin on the left side is a broken edge. This is
why we described the embayment, showed a dashed/dotted line on the specimen drawing, and
included an embayment in the restoration. Broken margins have been dotted in.
Results pg 9 lines 40-42. It’s not clear to me which feature the authors are referring to. Is it the thing
labelled ‘sor.a’ or the thing labelled ‘groove’? In the latter case, I think this is probably the maxillary
branch of the trigeminal nerve (or buccal, depending on where the mouth ended relative to the
groove).
Results pg 10 lines 49-52 Is the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve visible in your specimen?
Label it if so. Is it perhaps the ‘groove’ label in fig 1F?
Response: In Brindabellaspis, the maxillary branch leaves a groove and foramen in the floor of the
lateral preorbital space. The unknown palatoquadrate of Brindabellaspis would have been ventral to
the preserved skull, so we would expect the maxillary branch to also be more ventral the grooves
discussed here. Anyway, having thought about it more, we are not sure these grooves are in fact
related to each other, and one part is in fact a ridge. We now label only the ridge, and discuss the
possibility that it may be the anterior limit of the lateral preorbital space.
Why is there no mention of the hyoid articulation in the results section. It’s flagged up in the
introduction as ‘of particular note’. If it’s not going to be described or even
mentioned in the new specimens (and thus not included in the results or discussion), it needs to be
cut from the intro, or that paragraph at least heavily truncated.
Response: We do consider the hyoid articulation of particular note, worthy of mention in the
Introduction. Unlike all other placoderms, this part of the braincase projects out from beneath the
skull, the reason part of it was lost in the only example showing this structure. All the new specimens
were prepared in ignorance and without consultation, so the entire area was prepared away. We now
explain this in the Results, section 4.1, and discuss it in Section 5.1.
Results pg 11 line 17: I can’t find a figure for V1224 anywhere, which makes it difficult to understand
what is meant by ‘irregular expansion towards the front’. All of the new
specimens should be figured (in a supplement if necessary).
Response: This specimen and also V2584, are now added to our new Fig. 1.
Results pg 12 line 13 (and elsewhere): be consistent with the use of figure callouts – no abbreviation
or figure callout for the postnasal is given in the text here.
Response: This is now corrected.
Results pg 12 line 26 The position of the nasal opening isn’t clear to me because ANU V1224 isn’t
figured. I would prefer to see it labelled on the actual specimen than just on a composite
reconstruction.
Response: Now labelled on Fig. 1A, and discussed in section 5.2.
Results pg 13, line 43: Assuming, of course, that ‘acanthothoracids’ represent a clade, for which there
us very little to no evidence! If anything, the additional characters presented here provide even more
evidence for ‘acanthothoracid’ paraphyly.
Response: Accepted, and this is now stated in our text.
Discussion pg 14 lines 8-9. I would be wary of suggesting this as an ‘acanthothoracid’
character, given the limited number of ‘acanthothoracids’ (and other placoderms) in
which it can be assessed.
Response: Accepted, and these caveats are now discussed in the last para of Section 5.2.
Figures 3A: This panel would be more informative if the canals were figures in ventral
view.
Response: Accepted, and Fig 3A is now changed to ventral view.
A reconstruction of the skull in lateral view would help (especially given reference to the
extraordinarily deep skull).
Response: Accepted; now included as Fig 5D. Our new lateral restoration has clarified the likely
position of an ‘ectethmoid articulation’ for the palatoquadrate (previously restored by Young 1986, fig.
15A, but still unknown). This is consistent with the suggestion above by Reviewer 3 that the
palatoquadrate may not have extended all the way forward. This is now discussed in section 5.1
Society Open
