Efficiency enhancement of Cu2ZnSnS4 solar cells via
surface treatment engineering
Rongrong Chen, Jiandong Fan, Hongliang Li, Chong Liu and Yaohua Mai
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171163.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171163
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 10 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171163.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
CZTS thin film solar cell is a promising cells. The typical composition of CZTS is Zn/Sn=1.2.
However, a secondary phase ZnS will formed, which will deteriorate the performance of solar
cells. In this study, the authors etched ZnS by HCl. I think this manuscript can be accepted after a
minor revision.
1. Many small and light particals embeded in the grain boundaries of the as grown samples. A
EDS scan is at least to be measured to make clear what it is.
2. Does HCl only etch the surface of kesterite film? At least a cross-sectional image should be
detected to reveal the change after HCl etching, which can not only reveal the variation of
crystallization, but the performance difference after HCl etching.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Dear authors,
The authors present an study on the chemical etching and characterisation of ZnS on CZTS
absorber layers for thin films solar cells. They also present improvements in the performance of
the solar cells thanks to what the call a "novel etching method".
It is important to emphasise that the etching method is identical to the one reported in the
following publication which is not cited in the submitted work: (1) Fairbrother, A.; García-
Hemme, E.; Izquierdo-Roca, V.; Fontané, X.; Pulgarín-Agudelo, F. A.; Vigil-Galán, O.; Pérez-
Rodríguez, A.; Saucedo, E. Development of a Selective Chemical Etch to Improve the Conversion
Efficiency of Zn-Rich Cu 2ZnSnS 4 Solar Cells. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134 (19), 8018–8021.
3
Also, the characterisation and plots used are very similar to the ones reported to Fairbrother et al
(Particularly the Raman measurements).
I believe the authors are aware of the work of Fairbrother and their group, since they cite another
publication from them.
I believe that the results submitted for publication do not add any additional knowledge to the
potential readers compared to the work from Fairbrother et al.
For the reasons described above, I recommend to reject the publication of this work
Best Regards
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171163)
08-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Fan:
Title: Efficiency Enhancement of Cu2ZnSnS4 Solar Cells via Surface Treatment Engineering
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171163
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
4
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria and who is not included in the Funding statement.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 17-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
5
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
Please ensure that the paper highlighted by one of the referees - J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134 (19),
8018–8021 is cited and compared with the results in your submission. Comparison of this JACS
paper and your submission reveals significant differences in the film deposition method although
a similar HCl etch was utilised.
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
CZTS thin film solar cell is a promising cells. The typical composition of CZTS is Zn/Sn=1.2.
However, a secondary phase ZnS will formed, which will deteriorate the performance of solar
cells. In this study, the authors etched ZnS by HCl. I think this manuscript can be accepted after a
minor revision.
1. Many small and light particals embeded in the grain boundaries of the as grown samples. A
EDS scan is at least to be measured to make clear what it is.
2. Does HCl only etch the surface of kesterite film? At least a cross-sectional image should be
detected to reveal the change after HCl etching, which can not only reveal the variation of
crystallization, but the performance difference after HCl etching.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Dear authors,
The authors present an study on the chemical etching and characterisation of ZnS on CZTS
absorber layers for thin films solar cells. They also present improvements in the performance of
the solar cells thanks to what the call a "novel etching method".
It is important to emphasise that the etching method is identical to the one reported in the
following publication which is not cited in the submitted work: (1) Fairbrother, A.; García-
Hemme, E.; Izquierdo-Roca, V.; Fontané, X.; Pulgarín-Agudelo, F. A.; Vigil-Galán, O.; Pérez-
Rodríguez, A.; Saucedo, E. Development of a Selective Chemical Etch to Improve the Conversion
Efficiency of Zn-Rich Cu 2ZnSnS 4 Solar Cells. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134 (19), 8018–8021.
Also, the characterisation and plots used are very similar to the ones reported to Fairbrother et al
(Particularly the Raman measurements).
I believe the authors are aware of the work of Fairbrother and their group, since they cite another
publication from them.
6
I believe that the results submitted for publication do not add any additional knowledge to the
potential readers compared to the work from Fairbrother et al.
For the reasons described above, I recommend to reject the publication of this work
Best Regards
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171163)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171163.R1)
22-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Fan:
Title: Efficiency Enhancement of Cu2ZnSnS4 Solar Cells via Surface Treatment Engineering
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171163.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Appendix A
Dear Editor Siobhán Hackett,
Thank you for the highly efficient refereeing-process of our manuscript entitled
“Efficiency Enhancement of Cu2ZnSnS4 Solar Cells via Surface Treatment
Engineering”. We really appreciate the valuable comments and suggestions from the
reviewers, which would definitely help us to improve our manuscript. Here, the
reviewers' comments have been carefully addressed. The response to the reviewer’s
comments and the corrections performed can be found below.
Thanks again for your kind work!
Sincerely
Prof. Jiandong Fan (on behalf of all authors)
RSC Associate Editor:
Please ensure that the paper highlighted by one of the referees - J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2012, 134 (19), 8018–8021 is cited and compared with the results in your submission.
Comparison of this JACS paper and your submission reveals significant differences in
the film deposition method although a similar HCl etch was utilised.
As suggested, we cited the JACS paper in the manuscript.
Also, we carefully compared the work between this JACS paper and our study, and
revealed the significant differences. It is true that we have similar HCl etch approach.
However, the film deposition method was completely different. In the JACS paper, they
used DC-magnetron sputtering technic to prepare the CZTS thin film, whereas a
thermal decomposition and reaction of sol-gel solution process was employed to
prepare the CZTS absorber layer in our work, followed by a high temperature
sulfurization process. In which, the crystallization kinetics and thermodynamics were
quite different, which gives rise to the different etching mechanism and parameters.
Nevertheless, as far as we know, there is no effective method to remove the ZnS
phase of CZTS absorber layer prepared via thermal decomposition and reaction of sol-
gel solution process, which might be the key reason that the corresponding solar cells
are still limited by their inferior photovoltaic performance.
We added some discussion concerning the difference between this JACS paper and
our study in the manuscript.
Reviewer: 1
CZTS thin film solar cell is a promising cells. The typical composition of CZTS is
Zn/Sn=1.2. However, a secondary phase ZnS will formed, which will deteriorate the
performance of solar cells. In this study, the authors etched ZnS by HCl. I think this
manuscript can be accepted after a minor revision.
1. Many small and light particals embeded in the grain boundaries of the as grown
samples. A EDS scan is at least to be measured to make clear what it is.
Re: It is true that there are many small and light particles embedded in the grain
boundaries after sulfurization process. Considering the partials size are only around 100
nm, which is beyond the detection range of EDS. According to the reference [J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2012, 134 (19), 8018–8021] and our XRD, Raman and SEM results, the
present small particles are exactly the ZnS secondary phase that we aimed to remove.
The direct evidence can be obtained from our XRD, Raman (Figure 5) and SEM results.
It clearly pointed out that the peak intensity of ZnS in XRD and Raman decreased with
the etching time and increased concentration of HCl. Meanwhile, the small particles
tent to disappear with the effective etching process as shown below:
1% 3%
5% 10%
Figure 1 SEM images of CZTS thin films at (a) 1%, (b) 3% (c)5% and
(d)10% concentrations HCl solution soaking for 300 s.
No-etched 1 min
3 min 5 min
Figure 2 SEM images of CZTS thin films at (a) no-etching, (b) 1 min (c)3
min and (d) 5 min HCl solution soaking for 300 s.
In order to clearly demonstrate the effect of HCl etching on the morphology of
CZTS surface, we used the above SEM images with higher magnification to instead
the previous ones.
2. Does HCl only etch the surface of kesterite film? At least a cross-sectional image
should be detected to reveal the change after HCl etching, which can not only reveal
the variation of crystallization, but the performance difference after HCl etching.
As suggested, we characterized the cross-sectional image of as-fabricated CZTS solar
cells before and after etching as shown below. Comparably, there was not too much
ZnS secondary phase in the bulk both before and after etching in comparison to the
surface of CZTS thin film. In this scenario, it appears that the HCl mainly etched the
surface of kesterite film and thereafter removed the ZnS secondary phase. Likewise,
the crystallization orientation and crystal quality of CZTS absorber layer were
obviously improved thanks to the optimized phase and stoichiometric ratio after HCl
etching process.
(a) Before etching (b) A fter etching
C ZTS C ZTS
1µm 1µm
Figure 3 Cross-sectional SEM images of CZTS solar cells before and after etching
Reviewer: 2
the authors present an study on the chemical etching and characterisation of ZnS on
CZTS absorber layers for thin films solar cells. They also present improvements in the
performance of the solar cells thanks to what the call a "novel etching method".
It is important to emphasise that the etching method is identical to the one reported in
the following publication which is not cited in the submitted work: (1) Fairbrother, A.;
García-Hemme, E.; Izquierdo-Roca, V.; Fontané, X.; Pulgarín-Agudelo, F. A.; Vigil-
Galán, O.; Pérez-Rodríguez, A.; Saucedo, E. Development of a Selective Chemical
Etch to Improve the Conversion Efficiency of Zn-Rich Cu 2ZnSnS 4 Solar Cells. J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 2012, 134 (19), 8018–8021.
Also, the characterisation and plots used are very similar to the ones reported to
Fairbrother et al (Particularly the Raman measurements).
I believe the authors are aware of the work of Fairbrother and their group, since they
cite another publication from them.
I believe that the results submitted for publication do not add any additional knowledge
to the potential readers compared to the work from Fairbrother et al.
Reply: As suggested, we cited the JACS paper in the manuscript.
Also, we carefully compared the work between this JACS paper and our study,
and revealed the significant differences. It is true that we have similar HCL etch
approach. However, the film deposition method was completely different. In the JACS
paper, they used DC-magnetron sputtering technic to prepare the CZTS thin film,
whereas a thermal decomposition and reaction of sol-gel solution process was
employed to prepare the CZTS absorber layer in our work, followed by a high
temperature sulfurization process. In which, the crystallization kinetics and
thermodynamics were quite different, which gives rise to the different etching
mechanism and parameters.
Nevertheless, as far as we know, there is no specific method to remove the ZnS
phase of CZTS absorber layer prepared via thermal decomposition and reaction of sol-
gel solution process, which might be the key reason that the corresponding solar cells
still limited by their inferior photovoltaic performance.
We added some discussion concerning the difference between this JACS paper
and our study in the manuscript.
Society Open
