Cleaner fish escape salmon farms and hybridize with local
wrasse populations
Ellika Faust, Kim Tallaksen Halvorsen, Per Andersen, Halvor Knutsen and Carl André
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171752.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171752
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171752.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The work by Faust et al describes population genomic analysis of corkwing wrasse
demonstrating that this species escapes from fish farms and hybridizes with local population at
the northern edge of its current distribution. Overall, this manuscript describes relatively
interesting but small case of hybridization in corkwing wrasse, which most likely is driven by
human mediated transportation of cleaner fish. The manuscript is well written and easy to
understand, while analysis and presentation of data is clear. In terms of weaknesses, the biggest
shortcoming is probably lack of samples from large area from Bergen to Flatanger, which does
not allow to properly describe the genetic structuring of Western populations. While I think the
main conclusions are valid, adding nearby Western population(s) would have increased the
robustness of the findings. I think the authors should at least acknowledge this in the Discussion
section. The other limitation is related to small number of individuals screened in main target
location, which do not allow reliable estimation of various type of hybrids and farm escapees.
Thus, ideally much higher number of individuals should have been screened from Flatanger.
Other questions/comments
In the introduction, it is noted that technical replicates of four individuals were used to control
for methodical artefacts. However, the authors do not provide any information on how replicates
were used to control for genotyping errors. Also, I am not able to find estimates of inconsistent
genotyping calls etc. which would allow to evaluate the reliability of this work.
Do all fish from Flatanger came from the same exact location? It would be interesting, if the
authors provide more information of the distance between the closest net pens and sampling
site(s).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Review of Faust et al. submitted to Royal Society Open Science.
The authors describe a study evaluating the presence of hybridization between trans-located
feeder fish used in Salmon aquaculture and wild local populations in Norway. The paper is well
written, clear, and convincing. I have some suggestions regarding modifications to existing
methods or new methods that may be included. In particular, the paper is presently lacking any
evaluation of power to identify hybrids and hybrid classes using this dataset and this should be
completed and included. Overall this is a great paper and should be acceptable following
revisions.
Specific Comments:
Abstract.
Ln 26. Perhaps “the genetic impact of farmed…”
Methods
Page 3 Ln 2. How individuals were pooled per lanes. How those samples were distributed across
lanes? Randomly selected ? By sites ? This can be a significant source of bias, details should be
given.
Page 3. Ln 15. Missing genotypes are very common in RADseq approaches. To evaluate the
impact it is useful to conduct an identity-by-missingness analysis. This type of analysis could
reveal pattern of missing data generated during DNA extraction, library preparation and even
sequencing. If missing data pattern is present, filtering can be conducted to remove those
patterns. Two links to help with this:
PLINK IBM analysis - http://zzz.bwh.harvard.edu/plink/summary.shtml#clustermissing
grur R package with missing visualization analysis https://github.com/thierrygosselin/grur
Page 3. Ln 18. Was the MAF threshold of 0.01 used overall samples or at the sampling site level?
Using a general value of 0.01, similar to so many other RADseq studies is inadequate for this
study. Authors should keep any markers that pass the local and/or global MAF threshold in 1
population only. You want to keep markers that are polymorphic globally, but monomorphic at
the population level (fixed for different alleles). This threshold of requiring 1 population should
not change with increasing number of sampling sites or populations. Otherwise, it will create bias
towards some populations.
Page 3. Ln 26. What about LD among loci? This should be examined and used below.
Page 3. Ln 49. I agree with the authors that Newhybrids is the best way to evaluate the presence
of hybrids in this dataset. What is missing is an examination of power (i.e. accuracy and
efficiency) based on carefully simulated individuals. Without this sort of analysis, it is impossible
to evaluate how accurate the hybrid identifications are likely to be. This sort of analysis should
evaluate how power changes with number of loci, and threshold for acceptance of assignments
for each hybrid class. When identifying possible loci, loci should be filtered for LD which can
upwardly bias estimates of accuracy. This R package might be of use:
Wringe, B.F., Stanley, R.R.E., Jeffery, N.W., Anderson, E.C., and Bradbury, I.R. 2017.
4
hybriddetective: A workflow and package to facilitate the detection of hybridization using
genomic data in r. Mol. Ecol. Res. 17(6): e275-e284.
Discussion
Page Ln 50. Not sure how I feel about speculating on growth rates etc based on 3 fish. Might be
worth leaving this for later in the discussion with the caveats can be clearly presented.
How well does the sampling distribution cover the entire natural range in Norway? How might
the distribution of samples have impacted the hybrid identifications?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171752)
01-Dec-2017
Dear Ms Faust,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Cleaner fish escape salmon farms and hybridize with local
wrasse populations") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 24-Dec-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
5
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171752
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Tobler (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
We have received two thoughtful reviews of the manuscript. Both reviewers had an overall
positive impression of the paper and suggest a series of improvements that the authors should
implement during revisions.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The work by Faust et al describes population genomic analysis of corkwing wrasse
demonstrating that this species escapes from fish farms and hybridizes with local population at
the northern edge of its current distribution. Overall, this manuscript describes relatively
interesting but small case of hybridization in corkwing wrasse, which most likely is driven by
human mediated transportation of cleaner fish. The manuscript is well written and easy to
understand, while analysis and presentation of data is clear. In terms of weaknesses, the biggest
shortcoming is probably lack of samples from large area from Bergen to Flatanger, which does
not allow to properly describe the genetic structuring of Western populations. While I think the
main conclusions are valid, adding nearby Western population(s) would have increased the
robustness of the findings. I think the authors should at least acknowledge this in the Discussion
section. The other limitation is related to small number of individuals screened in main target
location, which do not allow reliable estimation of various type of hybrids and farm escapees.
Thus, ideally much higher number of individuals should have been screened from Flatanger.
Other questions/comments
In the introduction, it is noted that technical replicates of four individuals were used to control
for methodical artefacts. However, the authors do not provide any information on how replicates
were used to control for genotyping errors. Also, I am not able to find estimates of inconsistent
genotyping calls etc. which would allow to evaluate the reliability of this work.
Do all fish from Flatanger came from the same exact location? It would be interesting, if the
authors provide more information of the distance between the closest net pens and sampling
site(s).
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of Faust et al. submitted to Royal Society Open Science.
7
The authors describe a study evaluating the presence of hybridization between trans-located
feeder fish used in Salmon aquaculture and wild local populations in Norway. The paper is well
written, clear, and convincing. I have some suggestions regarding modifications to existing
methods or new methods that may be included. In particular, the paper is presently lacking any
evaluation of power to identify hybrids and hybrid classes using this dataset and this should be
completed and included. Overall this is a great paper and should be acceptable following
revisions.
Specific Comments:
Abstract.
Ln 26. Perhaps “the genetic impact of farmed…”
Methods
Page 3 Ln 2. How individuals were pooled per lanes. How those samples were distributed across
lanes ? Randomly selected ? By sites ? This can be a significant source of bias, details should be
given.
Page 3. Ln 15. Missing genotypes are very common in RADseq approaches. To evaluate the
impact it is useful to conduct an identity-by-missingness analysis. This type of analysis could
reveal pattern of missing data generated during DNA extraction, library preparation and even
sequencing. If missing data pattern is present, filtering can be conducted to remove those
patterns. Two links to help with this:
PLINK IBM analysis - http://zzz.bwh.harvard.edu/plink/summary.shtml#clustermissing
grur R package with missing visualization analysis https://github.com/thierrygosselin/grur
Page 3. Ln 18. Was the MAF threshold of 0.01 used overall samples or at the sampling site level?
Using a general value of 0.01, similar to so many other RADseq studies is inadequate for this
study. Authors should keep any markers that pass the local and/or global MAF threshold in 1
population only. You want to keep markers that are polymorphic globally, but monomorphic at
the population level (fixed for different alleles). This threshold of requiring 1 population should
not change with increasing number of sampling sites or populations. Otherwise, it will create bias
towards some populations.
Page 3. Ln 26. What about LD among loci? This should be examined and used below.
Page 3. Ln 49. I agree with the authors that Newhybrids is the best way to evaluate the presence
of hybrids in this dataset. What is missing is an examination of power (i.e. accuracy and
efficiency) based on carefully simulated individuals. Without this sort of analysis, it is impossible
to evaluate how accurate the hybrid identifications are likely to be. This sort of analysis should
evaluate how power changes with number of loci, and threshold for acceptance of assignments
for each hybrid class. When identifying possible loci, loci should be filtered for LD which can
upwardly bias estimates of accuracy. This R package might be of use:
Wringe, B.F., Stanley, R.R.E., Jeffery, N.W., Anderson, E.C., and Bradbury, I.R. 2017.
hybriddetective: A workflow and package to facilitate the detection of hybridization using
genomic data in r. Mol. Ecol. Res. 17(6): e275-e284.
8
Discussion
Page Ln 50. Not sure how I feel about speculating on growth rates etc based on 3 fish. Might be
worth leaving this for later in the discussion with the caveats can be clearly presented.
How well does the sampling distribution cover the entire natural range in Norway? How might
the distribution of samples have impacted the hybrid identifications?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171752)
See Appendices A & B.
label_version_2
RSOS-171752.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have done a great job of revising the paper. No further concerns at all. This paper
represents a valuable contribution to the field.
9
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171752.R1)
13-Feb-2018
Dear Ms Faust,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Cleaner fish escape salmon farms and
hybridize with local wrasse populations" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Tobler (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Tobler):
The authors have addressed all reviewer concerns in a satisfactory way, and I recommend this
manuscript for publication without additional revisions.
10
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have done a great job of revising the paper. No further concerns at all. This paper
represents a valuable contribution to the field.
Appendix A
Dear Editor,
Thank you for considering our manuscript for publication in RSOS. We are grateful for all of the
valuable suggestions and feedback. Please find below our responses. Indicated lines refer to the
revised manuscript showing tracked changes.
Response to Reviewer 1
1) In terms of weaknesses, the biggest shortcoming is probably lack of samples from large area from
Bergen to Flatanger, which does not allow to properly describe the genetic structuring of Western
populations. While I think the main conclusions are valid, adding nearby Western population(s)
would have increased the robustness of the findings. I think the authors should at least acknowledge
this in the Discussion section.
The genetic structure along the coast of Norwary has previously been investigated by Gonzales et al.
(2016). They found only minor differences along the western coast of Norway that could be explained
by a isolation by distance model, also when correcting for environment. Hence, adding populations to
this study would unlikely have contributed with further information. We acknowledge that there is a
gap in sampling that should be mentioned, and we have now made changes to the discussion (lines
231-233).
2) The other limitation is related to small number of individuals screened in main target location,
which do not allow reliable estimation of various type of hybrids and farm escapees. Thus, ideally
much higher number of individuals should have been screened from Flatanger.
We agree with reviewer 1 that a larger number of individuals from the target location could have
given further information and improved this manuscript. The small sample size is largely due to the
very low density of corkwing wrasse at the northern range front in Flatanger and thus the difficulties
with catching enough fish. Corkwing wrasse is virtually absent in the wrasse fishery here, so the
fisherman contracted was therefore instructed to preserve any corkwing he caught during the fishing
season for this study.
For future work we hope to collect and analyse more individuals and to investigate this hybridisation
event further, but we firmly believe that the information presented in the present ms is both robust
and novel, and of timely importance for fishery and invasive species management.
3) In the introduction, it is noted that technical replicates of four individuals were used to control for
methodical artefacts. However, the authors do not provide any information on how replicates were
used to control for genotyping errors.
We agree this is an important point and have expanded on the section describing how technical
replicates were used to control for genotyping errors (lines 82-86). More detailed information can be
found in the scripts manual which is available on github
https://github.com/ellikafaust/2bRAD_denovo.
4) Also, I am not able to find estimates of inconsistent genotyping calls etc. which would allow to
evaluate the reliability of this work.
Genotyping accuracy and reproducibility was assessed using the 48 replicates and we have included
inconsistency estimates in lines 160-161.
5) Do all fish from Flatanger came from the same exact location? It would be interesting, if the
authors provide more information of the distance between the closest net pens and sampling site(s).
We have added information regarding the exact location of catches in Flatanger and local salmon
farms where cleaner fish might be used in the supplementary information and lines 59-60.
Response to Reviewer 2
Abstract
1) Ln 26. Perhaps “the genetic impact of farmed…”
We have changed the sentence accordingly (line 1 in abstract)
Methods
2) Page 3 Ln 2. How individuals were pooled per lanes. How those samples were distributed across
lanes ? Randomly selected ? By sites ? This can be a significant source of bias, details should be
given.
40 individuals were sampled from each site and split into two pools with 20 individuals each (plus 4
technical replicates) that were sequenced in 2 separate lanes. Individuals were pooled by sampling
site to minimise the risk of mix up during extraction and library preparation. We felt that this was
especially important as the aim was to identify escapees and potential hybrids. However, having two
independent pools per site would at the same time account for possible sequencing biases. We have
explained this in lines 68-71
3) Page 3. Ln 15. Missing genotypes are very common in RADseq approaches. To evaluate the impact
it is useful to conduct an identity-by-missingness analysis. This type of analysis could reveal pattern
of missing data generated during DNA extraction, library preparation and even sequencing. If
missing data pattern is present, filtering can be conducted to remove those patterns. Two links to
help with this:
PLINK IBM analysis - http://zzz.bwh.harvard.edu/plink/summary.shtml#clustermissing
grur R package with missing visualization analysis https://github.com/thierrygosselin/grur
We have conducted an identity by missingness analysis and a mds plot using PLINK. We found no
obvious pattern of subgrouping of individuals due to missingness and have added a mds plot and
summary statistics of the pairwise comparisons in the supplementary as well as in lines 111-114 and
163-164
4) Page 3. Ln 18. Was the MAF threshold of 0.01 used overall samples or at the sampling site level?
Using a general value of 0.01, similar to so many other RADseq studies is inadequate for this
study. Authors should keep any markers that pass the local and/or global MAF threshold in 1
population only. You want to keep markers that are polymorphic globally, but monomorphic at the
population level (fixed for different alleles). This threshold of requiring 1 population should not
change with increasing number of sampling sites or populations. Otherwise, it will create bias
towards some populations.
Initially we tested different global maf thresholds (0, 0.01 and 0.05) and found that changing the maf
did not alter the outcome of the analyses (Structure, Fst, PCA). We have now added this information
to the ms in line 91-94. Considering our data, a local maf of 0.01 would mean that no SNPs would be
removed as it would be enough to have one occurrence of an allele in one sample to be within the
threshold (40 diploid individuals * maf 0.01 = 0.8 alleles). The global maf of 0.01 effectively means
that the minor allele has to occur a minimum of 5 times globally, given that there is no missing data,
and so we would catch any markers which are monomorphic on a local level. Hence, we believe that
a global maf threshold is sufficient for our current data set
5) Page 3. Ln 26. What about LD among loci? This should be examined and used below.
We tested for LD using Genepop and replaced 13 linked loci of the battery of 200 SNPs to use in the
Newhybrid analysis. (lines 132-135). The slightly new set gave similar results to the previous set (Fig 4
and line 197-206).
6) Page 3. Ln 49. I agree with the authors that Newhybrids is the best way to evaluate the presence
of hybrids in this dataset. What is missing is an examination of power (i.e. accuracy and efficiency)
based on carefully simulated individuals. Without this sort of analysis, it is impossible to evaluate
how accurate the hybrid identifications are likely to be. This sort of analysis should evaluate how
power changes with number of loci, and threshold for acceptance of assignments for each hybrid
class. When identifying possible loci, loci should be filtered for LD which can upwardly bias
estimates of accuracy. This R package might be of use:
Wringe, B.F., Stanley, R.R.E., Jeffery, N.W., Anderson, E.C., and Bradbury, I.R. 2017. hybriddetective:
A workflow and package to facilitate the detection of hybridization using genomic data in r. Mol.
Ecol. Res. 17(6): e275-e284.
We thank the reviewer for suggesting power analysis. We filtered the loci by LD (as mentioned
above) and used the recommended r package Hybriddetective to create simulated data in order to
estimate power, accuracy and efficiency. The method and estimates are now included in the revised
ms in lines 136-145, 206-208, Fig 5 and supplementary.
Discussion
7) Page Ln 50. Not sure how I feel about speculating on growth rates etc based on 3 fish. Might be
worth leaving this for later in the discussion with the caveats can be clearly presented.
We agree that three fish are not enough for concluding on the growth of hybrids, and as suggested,
we have now moved the essence of this sentence to the appropriate paragraph in the discussion (line
284-287), were the limitation of sample size is also mentioned. However, we find it noteworthy that
these findings are consistent with previous studies on growth data were large differences were found
between western and southern Norway in both growth rate and size.
8) How well does the sampling distribution cover the entire natural range in Norway? How might
the distribution of samples have impacted the hybrid identifications?
See response to reviewer 1 question 1.
Yours sincerely,
Ellika Faust
Appendix B
Cleaner fish escape salmon farms and hybridize with
local wrasse populations
Ellika Faust1*, Kim Tallaksen Halvorsen2, Per Andersen3, Halvor
Knutsen4,5,6, Carl André1
1
Department of Marine Sciences - Tjärnö, University of Gothenburg, 45296 Strömstad, Sweden
2
Institute of Marine Research, Austevoll Research Station, Storebø, Norway
3
Marine senior advisor Nord-Trøndelag, 7770 Flatanger, Norway
4
Institute of Marine Research, Flødevigen, Norway
5
Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, Oslo,
Norway
6
Centre for Coastal Research, University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway
Keywords: Aquaculture, Wrasse, Sea lice, Hybrid, RAD, Salmon
1. Abstract
The genetic impact of farmed fish escaping aquaculture is a highly debated issue. However, non-target species, such as
cleaner fish used to remove sea lice from farmed fish, are rarely considered. Here we report that wild corkwing wrasse
(Symphodus melops), which are transported long distances to be used as cleaner fish in salmon farms, escape and hybridize
with local populations. Recently, increasing numbers of corkwing wrasse have been reported in Flatanger in Norway,
north of its described distribution range, an area heavily relying on import of cleaner fish from Skagerrak. Using genetic
markers identified with 2bRAD sequencing, we show that, although the Flatanger population largely is a result of a
northwards range expansion, there is also evidence of considerable gene flow from southern populations in Skagerrak and
Kattegat. Out of 40 corkwing wrasses sampled in Flatanger, we discovered two individuals with clear southern genotypes,
one first generation hybrid, and twelve potential second-generation hybrids. In summary, we provide evidence that
corkwing wrasse escape from fish farms and hybridize with local populations at the leading edge of an ongoing range
expansion. Although the magnitude and significance of escapees warrants further investigation, these results should be
taken in consideration in the use of translocated cleaner fish.
2. Introduction
Marine species display a range of levels of genetic divergence among populations, from panmictic species to species with
marked genetic structure, as a consequence of reduced gene flow, genetic drift and/or local adaptation [1]. Transferring
individuals between spatially separated populations that are genetically distinct is likely to result in genetic changes to
native populations. Such changes could involve shifts in allelic composition, loss of genetic variation, erosion of local
adaptation and/or breakdown of population structure [2]. Human mediated releases of genetically different individuals to
native populations are increasingly common. Farmed fish escaping aquaculture is a serious threat to wild fish populations,
through competition, transfer of diseases and pathogens, and gene flow through interbreeding [3]. There are many
examples from open pen farming of salmonids, where escapees have hybridized with local river populations, leading to
genetic swamping and reduced fitness [4,5].
Salmon farming may also promote inadvertent gene flow in populations of species of wrasses (Labridae) in Norway and
*Author for correspondence (ellika.faust@gmail.com).
†Present address: Department of Marine Sciences - Tjärnö,
University of Gothenburg, Hättebäcksvägen 7, 45296 Strömstad,,
Sweden
1
UK, where wild wrasses are caught and used as cleaner fish to mitigate the increasing problems of sea lice infestations in
the farmed salmon [6,7]. These wrasses are relatively small predatory fish, typically abundant at shallow depths on rocky
coastlines in Northern Europe. They had little to no commercial value until their function as cleaner fish in captivity was
discovered and applied in the late 1980s [8–10]. The use of cleaner fish increased drastically in 2010 as a result of sea lice
evolving resistance to the most widely used pharmaceutical treatments [11]. In Norway, the national landings of wrasse
have now surpassed 20 million fish annually [12]. However, in mid Norway, the demand for cleaner fish exceeds the
supply from local stocks, and wild-caught wrasses are imported from southern Norway and western Sweden, areas where
salmon farming is absent [13]. Similarly, in the UK, most salmon farms are situated in Scotland, but due to local supply not
meeting the demand, an estimated 1 million wrasse are harvested in southwestern England annually for live transport to
Scotland [14,15]. Furthermore, the UK wrasse fishery is largely undocumented, and the records of landed wrasse is rarely
specified by species, only under a generic wrasse code. The lack of data on species composition and landings makes it
difficult to assess the impact of the wrasse fishery. This is a concern which has received increasing attention in recent
years, resulting in restrictions on wrasse fisheries in southwestern UK by regional Inshore Fisheries and Conservation
Authorities (IFCA) [15–17].
In Norway, two species, the goldsinny wrasse (Ctenolabrus rupestris) and the corkwing wrasse (Symphodus melops) are the
most commonly used wild cleaner fish, with 39 % and 52 % of the total Norwegian official landings 2016, respectively
(Norwegian directorate of Fisheries; https://www.fiskeridir.no/Yrkesfiske/Tema/Leppefiske/Registrert-uttak-av-leppefisk-
i-2017). A recent study found relatively low genetic divergence between wild goldsinny populations in farming areas in
mid Norway and populations in southern Norway and Sweden, suggesting inadvertent gene flow [18]. In contrast to the
goldsinny, which generally shows weak population structure, the corkwing has highly differentiated populations in
Scandinavia with a strong genetic break between southern and western Norway and overall lower genetic diversity in the
southern area [19]. The difference in population structure between the two species could be related to differences in
population connectivity caused by different reproductive strategies: the goldsinny is a broadcast spawner with a fraction
of the eggs being pelagic, while the corkwing lay benthic eggs in seaweed nests [6,20,21]. Furthermore, southern corkwing
populations have been found to grow faster and mature earlier than the populations further north [22], which aligns with
the genetic break [19]. Thus, if corkwing with southern origin escapes and hybridizes with local populations further north,
we could expect to see changes in genotype composition with possible phenotypic effects.
The corkwing’s northern distribution range was earlier reported to extend to the Trondheimsfjord in mid Norway. In the
Flatanger municipality, North Trøndelag county, 130 km further north, no corkwing were found during extensive field
surveys of wrasse in the 1990s [23]. However, in recent years, occasional observations of corkwing have been reported in
North Trøndelag (but not further north; The Norwegian Fishermen’s Sales Organization, pers.com), indicating a recent
northward range expansion. Knutsen et al. [24] proposed that the current increase in abundance in southern Scandinavia is
a result of population growth due to rising temperatures, and that the predicted rise in sea temperature could facilitate a
northwards expansion. The other possibility would be that this northwards expansion is a direct result of wrasse escaping
from the salmon pens through tears in the net, small fish slipping through the mesh [13,25] or intentional release at the end
of the season [26].
Here, we investigate the origin of wild corkwing wrasse captured in Flatanger, amidst Salmon farms where wrasses are
currently used as cleaner fish and rely heavily on the import of wrasse from southern Norway and Sweden. We used the
restriction-site associated DNA (RAD) sequencing method 2b-RAD [27] to simultaneously discover and genotype
thousands of SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) across the entire genome [24]. Our objective is to investigate
whether the wild corkwing in Flatanger represent: 1) the leading edge of an ongoing northwards range expansion [24], 2)
escaped wrasse from aquaculture with origin from Skagerrak and Kattegat, or 3) a mix of both. In order to answer these
questions, we compared SNPs from corkwing wrasse collected in Flatanger with wrasse collected: 1) in western Norway,
where wrasse is harvested but used locally, and 2) further south on the Skagerrak-Kattegat coast, where all wrasses are
harvested for live transport to salmon farms in mid and northern Norway.
3. Materials and Methods
Sampling and DNA extraction
With the help of commercial fishermen and local researchers we collected corkwing wrasse from Flatanger in mid
Norway; from two locations in western Norway: Austevoll and Stavanger (western population) and three locations at the
Skagerrak-Kattegat coast: Kristiansand, Strömstad and Kungsbacka (southern population) (Fig. 1). Fin clips from forty
individuals per location were taken June - October 2016 and stored in 96% ethanol until further analysis. For fish sampled
in Flatanger, we dissected otoliths and aged them by counting annual growth increments following Halvorsen et al. [22].
Additional sampling information, such as coordinates and sampling location in relation to salmon farms, can be found in
supplementary material (S1; S2)
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
3
Genomic DNA was extracted using DNeasy® Blood & Tissue Kit (Qiagen) with optional RNAse treatment (200mg
RNAse), and purified and concentrated with standard ethanol/isopropanol precipitation. DNA quantity and quality (i.e.
presence of contaminants, degradation etc.) was assessed using Qubit® ds DNA BR AssayKit (Invitrogen–ThermoFisher
Scientific) and on a 1% agarose gel. 2b-RAD libraries were prepared following a protocol modified from Matz &
Aglyamova [28], available in a dedicated github repository (https://github.com/ellikafaust/S.melopsPopGen). All
individual DNA samples were tagged with unique barcodes and then pooled in sets of 24 per sequencing lane, including
technical replicates of 4 individuals to control for methodical artefacts. Pooling was done by sampling site, where each
sample (40 individuals) was divided in two independent pools that were sequenced in separate lanes. This was done to
minimise risk of mixing up samples during library preparation, while having two independent pools to account for any
lane bias. Single-read, 50bp target length sequencing on Illumina HiSeq2500 platform was conducted at the SNP&SEQ
Technology Platform in Uppsala, Uppsala University.
Bioinformatics
The bioinformatic analysis of the DNA sequences followed a modified de novo pipeline from Pierre de Wit [29] using
scripts developed by Mikhail Matz (scripts and manual available at https://github.com/z0on/2bRAD_denovo). First, low
quality reads and redundant sequences (i.e. restriction sites and duplicates) were removed. Remaining fragments were
then clustered into rad tags, allowing up to 3 mismatches among reads (identity threshold 91%) and with a minimum
depth of 20 reads. Individual genotypes were called, following the criteria of Mindp=5 (min depth for calling a
homozygote), hetero=0.8 (max fraction of heterozygotes allowed), aobs=20 (min number of times allele has to be observed
across all samples) and strbias=20 (strand bias cutoff). Four technical replicates per lane were used to control for
methodical artefacts using the recalibrateSNPs.pl script. Variants that had been identical genotyped between the replicates
were used as reference for non-parametric quality recalibration of all variants, estimating their probability of being “true”
SNPs. Loci with recalibrated quality below 20 and alleles with quality below 20 were removed. Only variants with less
than 75% heterozygotes and less than 50% missing data were kept for thinning (removing) of the dataset. SNPs occurring
on the same RAD-tag were removed, leaving only the SNP with the highest minor allele frequency (MAF) in each RAD-
tag. Technical replicates and poorly sequenced individuals (individuals with more than 50% missing data) were removed.
Finally, we removed loci that were missing in more than 30% of the individuals or with a global minor allele frequency
below 1%. Initially, different levels of minor allele frequency (maf 0%, 1% and 5%) were tested. Since the different datasets
did not change the outcome of the analyses (data not shown) we only present results from loci with maf > 1%, maintaining
the most number of loci, whilst still removing genotyping errors and uninformative polymorphisms [30]. Data conversions
between different softwares was done using PGD spider [31].
Statistical analysis
Population diversity and differentiation
We used the R package diveRsity [32] in R v.3.3.2 [33] to calculate observed and expected heterozygosity for each locus in
the different samples. Whether observed heterozygosity (Ho) values deviated from expected heterozygosity (He) was
assessed by calculating FIS according to Weir and Cockerham [34]. Deviations from Hardy-Weinberg (HW) proportions
were estimated with exact tests, with P-values calculated according to the complete enumeration method [35] and adjusted
for multiple testing using False Discovery Rate (FDR) correction [36]. Loci that deviated (q < 0.05) from HW proportions in
more than one of the samples were subsequently removed. Weir & Cockerham’s FST was estimated for each population
pair and over all samples using diveRsity. Statistical significance of FST values were assessed using Fisher’s exact
probability test with 5000 Monte Carlo replicates, followed by FDR correction.
Individual-based clustering
Missing genotypes can induce patterns of similarity or differentiation that are easily confused with genetic structure. In
order to detect such biases, we clustered individuals based on their identity-by-missingness (IBM) in PLINK v 1.9 [37,38]
where pairwise distances between individuals are calculated from the proportion of missing site which are not shared
between individual pairs. Pairwise distances were visualised with a multidimensional scaling (MDS) plot.
In order to estimate and visualise genetic differentiation among individuals we applied two individual-based clustering
methods, STRUCTURE v.2.3.4 [39] and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) in the R package ade4 [40–42]. STRUCTURE
uses model-based Bayesian clustering to find the most likely number of population clusters K. Once K is defined it
estimates the posterior probability of each individual's genotype to originate in each cluster. STRUCTURE analyses were
performed assuming uncorrelated allele frequencies, allowing admixture and with no locprior. The burn-in period was set
to 10 000 and the number of MCMC (Markov Chain Monte Carlo) repetitions to 50 000. Clusters K from 1-7 were run 3
times per K. The different runs were merged for visual analysis with CLUMPAK [43]. Calculations of the most likely
number of population clusters (K) was estimated using STRUCTURE HARVESTER [44] by calculating the posterior
R. Soc. open sci.
probability for each value of K (mean lnP(K)) and the modal value of Delta K. The second individual-based clustering
method (PCA) uses a multivariate exploratory approach that makes no prior assumptions about how many populations
exist or boundaries between populations. Allele frequencies were centred but not scaled and missing data were replaced
by mean allele frequencies with the function scaleGen in ADEGENET [45,46]. PCA was performed using the function
dudi.pca in ade4.
Hybridization
In order to remove potential bias in hybrid analysis, 200 SNPs with the highest over all FST were tested for linkage
disequilibrium (LD) in Genepop on the web [47] using 10 000 dememorizations, 100 batches and 5 000 iterations per batch.
SNPs with significant LD after FDR corrections were removed and replaced with new SNPs until no significant
comparisons remained. In order to assess the accuracy, efficiency and power to correctly identify individuals belonging to
different hybrid classes, we used the R package HYBRIDDETECTIVE [48]. We used the function
freqbasedsim_AlleleSample to generate three replicates of three simulated data sets with pure parents (Pure_A and
Pure_B), first and second-generation hybrids (F1 and F2) and backcrosses between F1 and pure parents (BC_A and BC_B).
The data sets contained 720 individuals and was based on the genotype frequencies from the 200 loci in the western
(PureA = Austevoll and Stavanger) and southern (PureB = Kristiansand, Strömstad and Kungsbacka) samples. Simulations
were analysed in NEWHYBRIDS v. 1.1 [49] which estimates the posterior probability of each individual to belong to one of
the six hybrid classes. The analysis was done using the uniform prior option and default genotype proportions with a
burn-in period of 50 000 iteration and 300 000 MCMC sweeps. Power was estimated as the product of efficiency (correctly
assigned individuals over the known individuals per class) and accuracy (correctly assigned individuals over individuals
assigned to that class) as described in [48].
Finally, we investigated the occurrence of hybridization in the northern-most location Flatanger in mid Norway with the
software NEWHYBRIDS. Individuals from Skagerrak (Kristiansand, Strömstad and Kungsbacka) and western Norway
(Austevoll and Stavanger) were included in the runs as the pure parent genotypes using the “z” and “s” options. The
analysis was performed using the same 200 loci as for the simulated data, displaying the highest over all FST estimates and
no LD. The data was analysed using the uniform prior option, default genotype proportions and the burn-in period was
set to 50 000 and the number of MCMC sweeps after burn-in to 300 000.
4. Results
Genetic diversity and population differentiation
From the in total 48 technical replicates (4 for each pool of 20) we called 237 090 SNPs (average 4939 ± 126 SD per replicate
pair). Of these, 9% ± 0.05% SD are inconsistent between technical replicates. Data filtering resulted in a total of 4372
polymorphic SNPs, and none of the 240 individuals had to be removed due to missing data. Of the 57 600 missing data
comparisons, only 479 pairwise comparisons have an identity of missingness higher than 20% (max 47%), and no obvious
patterns of identity by missingness can be observed (S3). FIS estimates indicate heterozygote excess in all samples (mean FIS
ranging from -0.344 to -0.052). Fifteen loci deviated significantly (q < 0.05) from HW proportions in more than one sample
and were subsequently removed, leaving 4357 SNPs for final analysis. No more than eight loci deviate significantly from
HW proportions in any of the western or southern samples. However, a much higher number of loci, in total 1724 loci,
deviate from HW proportions in the Flatanger sample, 1722 of which display negative FIS values, indicating heterozygosity
excess. Furthermore, wrasse from the western population display an overall higher genetic diversity (mean Ho = 0.30,
mean He = 0.32, polymorphic loci = 95.2%) compared to wrasse from the southern population (mean Ho = 0.26, mean He =
0.24, polymorphic loci = 82.3%). The Flatanger population shows the highest genetic diversity (mean Ho = 0.50 mean He =
0.35, polymorphic loci = 97%). Global genetic differentiation, estimated as FST = 0.0789, is significantly (p < 0.05) different
from zero. Pairwise FST estimates (S4) demonstrate higher genetic differentiation between the western and southern
populations (FST = 0.101-0.1312) than among the southern samples (FST = 0.0023-0.0030) or between western samples (FST =
0.0065). Overall, Flatanger is genetically more similar to the western population (FST = 0.0243-0.0277) than the southern
population (FST = 0.1163-0.1258).
Individual-based clustering
STRUCTURE analyses suggest the existence of two, potentially three, genetically differentiated clusters (Fig. 2; S5). The
first two clusters correspond to the divide between southern and western populations (blue and orange, respectively), in
concordance with pairwise FST estimates and previous studies [19]. Most individuals from Flatanger assigned to the
western population for K = 2, and partially to a third cluster (purple) for K = 3. However, two individuals from Flatanger
(FKH48 and FKH50) assigned to the southern population (blue). Another individual from the Flatanger sample (FKH67)
assigned equally to both populations, suggesting admixture.
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
5
In order to estimate and visualise genetic differentiation among individuals without prior assumptions about the
population model, we conducted a PCA (Fig. 3). The first principal component separates data into two main clusters,
which correspond closely to southern and western clusters observed in the STRUCTURE analysis. The second principal
component (y-axis) splits the Flatanger population from the western population, placing Flatanger closer to the southern
population than the western. Succeeding components explain less than 1% of the total variance each, and are not shown.
The same two individuals from Flatanger (FKH48 and FKH50) which assigned to the southern cluster in the STRUCTURE
analyses, group with the southern cluster in the PCA. The Flatanger individual which assigned equally to both clusters in
the STRUCTURE analyses (FKH67) is closer to the southern cluster than any of the other individuals from the Flatanger or
western population.
Hybridization
We used the software NEWHYBRIDS to identify potential hybrids in Flatanger (Fig. 4). The two individuals that assigned
to the southern cluster in both STRUCTURE and the PCA (FKH48 and FKH50), were identified as southern backcrosses,
i.e. 75% southern genotype and 25% western genotype. FKH67 was detected as a F1 hybrid, carrying 50% of both the
southern and western genotype. Furthermore, another 12 individuals from Flatanger have a high probability (>50%) of
being western backcrosses, i.e. 75% western genotype and 25% southern genotype. Some fish from the “pure” southern
and western samples closest to the southern/western genetic break (two individuals in Kristiansand and eight in
Stavanger) are also distinguished as genetic backcrosses (Fig. 4a), indicating gene flow across the break. Simulated data
demonstrated high efficiency, accuracy and power to detect individuals from all of the six hybrid classes given the battery
of 200 loci used (Fig. 5; S6). The battery of SNPs is able to call individuals as pure western, pure southern, F1, F2, western
or southern backcross with a power above 95% at a probability threshold of 90%.
Comparison of length measurements for individuals of the same sex and age (Fig. 6) show that the F1 individual (FKH67)
and one of the individuals with southern genotype (FKH48) are the largest two-year-old males in the sample. The second
individual with a southern genotype (FKH50) is a three-year-old female above median length.
5. Discussion
Here we provide the first evidence that translocated corkwing wrasse escape salmon farms and hybridize with local
populations. Our results support previous studies by finding marked genetic differentiation between southern Skagerrak
corkwing wrasse populations and those in western Norway. We expand on current knowledge by discovering that almost
half of the individuals sampled at the northern limit of the species distribution range have partial southern genotypes.
Three of these individuals carry 50% or more of the southern genotype. We discuss the potential consequences of human
mediated geneflow, and the concerns with the current practice of large-scale translocation of wrasse.
As expected under isolation-by-distance, pairwise FST estimates (S2) demonstrate that the Flatanger as a whole is
genetically most similar to Austevoll, followed by Stavanger, whilst almost a tenfold more differentiated from the
southern sampling locations. We observe similar patterns of genetic differentiation in the individual-based clustering
methods for a majority of individuals from Flatanger (Fig. 2, 3). This suggests that the Flatanger population is largely a
result of an ongoing northward range expansion, as suggested by Knutsen et al, [24]. It is possible that a more continuous
sampling along the west coast of Norway would have improved upon these results by adding samples closer to Flatanger,
and hence more likely to have contributed to a range expansion.
While we find a clear western/southern genetic break and an overall lower genetic diversity in the southern, Skagerrak
region [19,24], the highest diversity can be seen in Flatanger, which is rather surprising, considering that this area has been
colonised recently [19,23,24] and is on the leading edge of a range expansion [19,24]. Typically a reduction in genetic
diversity is to be expected when a species colonises a new area [50]. The high genetic diversity in Flatanger is therefore
likely to be a result of multiple sources of origin and recent interbreeding [50], as indicated by the fact that roughly 40% of
all loci demonstrated a significant heterozygosity excess in the Flatanger sample.
Furthermore, two individuals (FKH48 and FKH50) exhibit high similarity to the southern population whilst differentiating
from all western and Flatanger individuals. They clearly cluster with southern individuals in STRUCTURE and PCA,
suggesting a southern genotype. A third individual (FKH67) did not cluster with either southern or western populations,
and was classified as a F1 hybrid (50:50 western:southern) by NEWHYBRIDS (Fig. 4). Furthermore, NEWHYBRIDS found
twelve Flatanger individuals to have more than 50% probability of being western backcrosses. This strongly supports
ongoing hybridization between the southern and western genotypes in the wild, which has previously only been
documented in captivity [26]. In addition to the hybrids discovered in Flatanger, we also detected two potential
backcrosses in Kristiansand and seven in Stavanger (Fig. 4b). Stavanger and Kristiansand are the two samples collected
closest to the genetic break on the western and the southern side, respectively. Except for Flatanger, we did not detect any
R. Soc. open sci.
indication of hybrids in any of the other samples further from the genetic break, indicating the existence of isolated
populations [19].
The relative high number of Southern-Western hybrids in Flatanger is therefore convincing evidence of escapement and
hybridization of cleaner fish sourced from Skagerrak and/or Kattegat. Recently, Jansson et al. [18] showed there to be much
lower differentiation in goldsinny wrasse between Flatanger and Skagerrak populations indicating escapees and possibly
hybridization. Unfortunately, there are no official records on the locations of source and destination of wrasses used as
cleaner fish, which could have facilitated further interpretation of these results. Upon consulting with the four wrasse
transport companies, they confirmed that the clear majority of wrasse being translocated in Norway are exported from
Skagerrak-Kattegat coast to farms in mid and northern Norway. Furthermore, translocations of wrasse from western
Norway to mid Norway has been strongly discouraged by food-safety authorities due to the possibility of wrasse being a
carrier of pancreas disease which affects farmed salmon and is endemic in western Norway south of Hustadvika [51].
Combined, this supports the conclusion that western backcrosses in Flatanger must have been the result of hybridization
with southern genotypes from Skagerrak and/or Kattegat. We did not find any western backcrosses east of Kristiansand in
the Skagerrak. Consequently, the western backcross genotypes we found in Flatanger are likely a result of second-
generation hybridization that occurred after translocation. Two of the companies reported to also have transported wrasse
from Skagerrak to farms in western Norway. Thus, it is presently unclear whether the occurrence of western backcrosses
in the Stavanger area is a result of human-mediated translocation, or if it is due to occasional natural gene-flow across the
genetic break between the southern and western populations.
The onset of gene flow between previously isolated populations may have genetic, physiological and ecological
consequences. The corkwing wrasse in Flatanger most likely colonised the area within the last two decades [23]. This and
low catch rates attest to a very low abundance in the Flatanger area compared to regions further south (Per Andersen,
pers.obs.), rendering this population vulnerable to even a low number of successful introgressions. Presently, fishing for
wrasse in Sweden is allowed from the 15th of May, and occurs during their spawning period in May and June [52]. Hence,
there is a possibility that ready-to-spawn corkwing are escaping during the spawning season, increasing the probability of
hybridization. In Norway, the wrasse fishery is closed until the end of the spawning season [22], which reduces the
chances of hybridization. In the UK, wrasse fishery has no temporal restrictions nationally, but in 2017 three southwestern
IFCAs (Inshore Fisheries and Conservation Authorities) implemented byelaws that restrict wrasse fishery to certain
periods of the year in specified areas [15–17].
The effects of hybridization between genetically distinct populations are hard to predict and depend on many factors.
Fitness can increase as a result of introducing favourable alleles and genotypes (overdominance), or because of deleterious
alleles are being sheltered (heterosis) [50]. The three individuals with more than 50 % southern genotype tended to be
larger than the native fish at the same age. Although a conclusion cannot be reached without a larger sample size of
hybrids, this is consistent with earlier findings of southern corkwing growing faster than western [22]. If the faster growth
and larger body size for southern populations has a genetic basis, hybrids may have a fitness advantage in reproduction,
either through sexual selection for large males or higher fecundity of large females. Alternatively, a reduction in fitness can
occur due to genetic incompatibilities (intrinsic outbreeding depression) or reduced adaptation to the local environment
(extrinsic outbreeding depression) [50]. The life history differences between southern and western populations has been
suggested to reflect temperature differences between these regions [22]. If there is local adaptation, it is likely that the
continued transfer of unfit individuals would cause the loss of locally adapted alleles and genotypes, known as genetic
swamping [53]. However, introgression and admixture of the southern genotype into the Flatanger population is likely to
continue, whether there is an increase of fitness or not. This is because, all of the hybrids progeny will also be hybrids [50].
Populations on the boundary of a species range exist in conditions similar to the habitats just outside the distribution
range, making them more likely to carry genotypes that are able to colonise new habitats [54]. The Flatanger population,
constituting the northern boundary of the species distribution range, is likely to play an important role for future
adaptation potential, and range expansion. However, the asymmetric geneflow to the edges of a species range can obstruct
this adaptation [55]. Admixing with southern genotypes might therefore work as a barrier to further range expansion.
Furthermore, southern corkwing is also translocated to salmon farms even further north, to the Nordland county (Jacob
Meland, Lovundlaks, pers.com.), where no wild corkwing populations are present. This could facilitate further spreading
of southern genotypes beyond the current natural range. In addition to the genetic and ecological risks discussed above,
escaping wrasse may introduce new diseases or parasites to conspecifics, salmon and other species in the wild [13,56,57].
Murray [58] argues that the risks of disease transfer from cleaner fish to salmon is small compared to the risk posed by sea
lice, but disease transfer to the local populations of wrasse and other species was not considered. With ongoing
hybridization, the risk of disease transfer may be an even greater threat to local populations, since hybrids may be more
susceptible to diseases and parasites, as seen in other fish species [59,60].
In the face of climate induced changing environments, conservation of populations on the leading edge should be
prioritised in order to maximise future adaptive potential [54,61,62]. We argue that any evaluation of the risks with the
translocation of wrasse needs to include effects on wild populations and ecosystems. Furthermore, prohibition of long
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
7
distance wrasse transports would not necessarily solve this issue. Salmon farms would be restricted to use cleaner fish that
are sourced from local populations or raised in aquaculture, which would pose other challenges. Local stocks of wrasse are
prone to overexploitation [12,22,63] and cultured cleaner fish would need to be sourced from the same population where
cleaner fish are used and have not undergone artificial selection. An obstacle for effective management is that the current
practice of cleaner fish use is poorly documented and regulated. Norwegian law states that aquacultures are obligated to
report all escaping fish from aquaculture installations, but presently only the target species cultured are recorded.
Moreover, Norwegian and UK transporters are not required to log and report the source or the destination of cleaner fish,
which complicates the possibilities to assess and address the problem of escapees.
6. Conclusion
We provide the first evidence that translocated wild corkwing wrasse used as cleaner fish in salmon farms escape and
hybridize with local populations at the northern limit of its distribution. These findings provide important information for
aquaculture management and conservation of wild populations of non-target species, and have implications for the
increasing use of cleaner fish as parasite control in fish farms, which is both poorly documented and regulated. Moving
genetic material between isolated populations could drastically alter the genetic composition, erode population structure
and potentially result in loss of local adaptation, hampering the species expansion. The geographical extent and
magnitude of introgression and the ecological consequences remain unknown for this and other wrasse species. It is
urgent to address these gaps of knowledge, as there is no immediate sign of reduction of the current practice in Norway,
and wrasse are increasingly being deployed in other areas such as the United Kingdom.
Acknowledgments
We wish to thank local fishermen, fisherwomen and research colleagues for assisting with sampling, especially Åsa Strand
for help with Swedish sampling, and Lars Mårvik for collecting corkwing in Flatanger, Reine Andreasson for collecting
corkwing in Strömstad. Torkel Larsen assisted with the otolith work and age-reading. Pierre de Wit gave valuable advice
on the 2bRAD method and Mats Töpel on SNP data storage and analysis. Sequencing was performed by the SNP&SEQ
Technology Platform in Uppsala. The facility is part of the National Genomics Infrastructure (NGI) Sweden and Science
for Life Laboratory. The SNP&SEQ Platform is also supported by the Swedish Research Council and the Knut and Alice
Wallenberg Foundation. All bioinformatics analyses were run on the Albiorix computer cluster
(http://albiorix.bioenv.gu.se/) at the Department of Marine Sciences, University of Gothenburg. This study was conducted
within the Linnaeus Centre for Marine Evolutionary Biology (CeMEB)
Ethical Statement
Fish sampling was conducted in compliance with the Norwegian animal welfare Act (LOV 2009-06-19 nr 97) and the
Swedish Board of Agriculture (Dnr 35-2016, addition to 59-2015). We strived to minimize handling time and stress
imposed on the fish.
Funding Statement
Ellika Faust - EU Interreg project MarGen; Swedish Research Council FORMAS
Kim Tallaksen Halvorsen – No funding to report
Per Andersen – No funding to report
Halvor Knutsen - EU Interreg project MarGen; Norwegian Research Council (grant number 234328/E40)
Carl Andre - EU Interreg project MarGen; Swedish Research Council FORMAS
Data Accessibility
Data is deposited on Dryad (doi:10.5061/dryad.tv553).
Raw data is available on NCBIs Sequence Read Archive (BioProject PRJNA415388).
Scripts used for bioinformatic analysis can be found at https://github.com/z0on/2bRAD_denovo
Log of the pipeline used can be found at https://github.com/ellikafaust/S.melopsPopGen/blob/master/2bRAD_log_escapee
Competing Interests
We have no competing interests.
Authors' Contributions
R. Soc. open sci.
KH and CA conceived the study. EF, KH, HK and CA planned the research. EF, KH, PA and HK conducted and
coordinated sample collection. EF conducted the molecular laboratory and bioinformatic work. KH performed
morphometrics and age analysis. EF and CA performed statistical analyses. EF drafted the manuscript with help from KH
and CA. All authors contributed to the final writing and approval of the publication.
References
1. Hauser L, Carvalho GR. 289–300. Ellis J. 2017 Northern
2008 Paradigm shifts in (doi:10.1017/CBO978110741 European Wrasse –
marine fisheries genetics: 5324.004) Summary of commercial
Ugly hypotheses slain by 8. Bjordal Å. 1988 Cleaning use, fisheries and
beautiful facts. Fish Fish. 9, symbiosis between wrasse implications for
333–362. (doi:10.1111/j.1467- (Labridae) and lice infested management.
2979.2008.00299.x) salmon (Salmo salar) in 15. Devon & Severn IFCA. 2017
2. Laikre L, Schwartz MK, mariculture. Int. Counc. Potting Permit Byelaw.
Waples RS, Ryman N, Explor. Sea Devon Sev. IFCA, Inshore
Group TGW. 2010 9. Bjordal Å. 1991 Wrasse as Fish. Conserv. Auth.
Compromising genetic cleaner fish for farmed 16. Cornwall IFCA. 2017 Live
diversity in the wild: salmon. Prog. Underw. Sci. Wrasse Fishery Guidance
Unmonitored large-scale 16, 17–28. 2017-18. Cornwall IFCA,
release of plants and (doi:10.1017/CBO978110741 Inshore Fish. Conserv. Auth.
animals. Trends Ecol. Evol. 5324.004) 17. Southern IFCA. 2017
25, 520–529. 10. Deady S, Varian SJA, Fives Wrasse Fishery Guidance.
(doi:10.1016/j.tree.2010.06.0 JM. 1995 The use of cleaner- South. IFCA, Inshore Fish.
13) fish to control sea lice on Conserv. Auth.
3. Jensen, Dempster T, two Irish salmon (Salmo 18. Jansson E et al. 2017 Genetic
Thorstad EB, Uglem I, salar) farms with particular analysis of goldsinny
Fredheim A. 2010 Escapes reference to wrasse wrasse reveals evolutionary
of fishes from Norwegian behaviour in salmon cages. insights into population
sea-cage aquaculture: Aquaculture 131, 73–90. connectivity and potential
Causes, consequences and (doi:10.1016/0044- evidence of inadvertent
prevention. Aquac. Environ. 8486(94)00331-H) translocation via
Interact. 1, 71–83. 11. Besnier F et al. 2014 Human- aquaculture. ICES J. Mar.
(doi:10.3354/aei00008) induced evolution caught in Sci.
4. Glover KA et al. 2017 Half a action: SNP-array reveals (doi:10.1093/icesjms/fsx046)
century of genetic rapid amphi-atlantic spread 19. Blanco Gonzalez E, Knutsen
interaction between farmed of pesticide resistance in the H, Jorde PE. 2016 Habitat
and wild Atlantic salmon: salmon ecotoparasite discontinuities separate
Status of knowledge and Lepeophtheirus salmonis. genetically divergent
unanswered questions. Fish BMC Genomics 15, 937. populations of a rocky
Fish. , 890–927. (doi:10.1186/1471-2164-15- shore marine fish. PLoS One
(doi:10.1111/faf.12214) 937) 11.
5. Bolstad GH et al. 2017 Gene 12. Halvorsen KT, Larsen T, (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.01
flow from domesticated Sørdalen TK, Vøllestad LA, 63052)
escapes alters the life Knutsen H, Olsen EM. 2017 20. Potts GW. 1985 The Nest
history of wild Atlantic Impact of harvesting Structure of the Corkwing
salmon. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 1, cleaner fish for salmonid Wrasse, Crenilabrus Melops
124. (doi:10.1038/s41559- aquaculture assessed from (Labridae: Teleostei). J. Mar.
017-0124) replicated coastal marine Biol. Assoc. United Kingdom
6. Darwall W, Costello M, protected areas. Mar. Biol. 65, 531–546.
Donelly R, Lysaght S. 1992 Res. , 1–11. (doi:10.1017/S002531540005
Implications of life-history (doi:10.1080/17451000.2016. 058X)
strategies for a new wrasse 1262042) 21. Hilldén N-O. 1984
fishery. J. Fish Biol. 41, 111– 13. Svåsand T, Grefsrud ES, Behavioural ecology of the
123. (doi:10.1111/j.1095- Karlsen Ø, Kvamme BO, labrid fishes (Teleostei,
8649.1992.tb03873.x) Glover K., Husa V, Labridae) at Tjärnö on the
7. Skiftesvik AB et al. 2014 Kristiansen TS (red. ). 2017 Swedish west coast.
Wrasse (Labridae) as cleaner Risikorapport norsk 22. Halvorsen KT, Sørdalen TK,
fish in salmonid fiskeoppdrett 2017. Fisk. og Durif C, Knutsen H, Olsen
aquaculture - The havet EM, Skiftesvik AB, Rustand
Hardangerfjord as a case 14. Riley A, Jeffery K, TE, Bjelland RM, Vøllestad
study. Mar. Biol. Res. 10, Cochrane-dyet T, White P, LA. 2016 Male-biased
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
9
sexual size dimorphism in RAD_log_August2016.sh. Purcell SM, Lee JJ. 2015
the nest building corkwing See Second-generation PLINK:
wrasse (Symphodus melops): https://github.com/DeWitP/ Rising to the challenge of
implications for a size BONUS_BAMBI_IDOTEA/ larger and richer datasets.
regulated fishery. ICES J. blob/master/IB14_2b- Gigascience 4, 1–16.
Mar. Sci. 73, 2586–2594. RAD_log_August2016.sh (doi:10.1186/s13742-015-
(doi:10.1093/icesjms/fsw135 (accessed on 26 May 2017). 0047-8)
) 30. Roesti M, Salzburger W, 38. Purcell S, Chang C. 2017
23. Maroni K, Andersen P. 1996 Berner D. 2012 PLINK. , 9.
Distribution and abundance Uninformative 39. Pritchard JK, Stephens M,
of wrasse in an area of polymorphisms bias Donnelly P. 2000 Inference
northern Norway. In genome scans for signatures of population structure
Wrasse: Biology and use in of selection. BMC Evol. Biol. using multilocus genotype
Aquaculture. (eds MDJ 12, 94. (doi:10.1186/1471- data. Genetics 155, 945–959.
Sayer, MJ Costello, JW 2148-12-94) (doi:10.1111/j.1471-
Treasurer), pp. 70–73. 31. Lischer HEL, Excoffier L. 8286.2007.01758.x)
Oxford: Fishing News 2012 PGDSpider: An 40. Chessel D, Dufour AB,
Books. automated data conversion Thioulouse J. 2004 The ade4
24. Knutsen H, Jorde PE, tool for connecting package - I : One-table
Blanco Gonzalez E, Robalo population genetics and methods. R News 4, 5–10.
JI, Albretsen J, Almada V. genomics programs. (doi:10.2307/3780087)
2013 Climate Change and Bioinformatics 28, 298–299. 41. Dray S, Dufour AB, Chessel
Genetic Structure of (doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/ D. 2007 The ade4 package-
Leading Edge and Rear End btr642) II: Two-table and K-table
Populations in a 32. Keenan K, Mcginnity P, methods. R News 7, 47–52.
Northwards Shifting Cross TF, Crozier WW, (doi:10.1159/000323281)
Marine Fish Species, the Prodöhl PA. 2013 diveRsity: 42. Dray S, Dufour AB. 2007
Corkwing Wrasse An R package for the The ade4 Package:
(Symphodus melops). PLoS estimation and exploration Implementing the Duality
One 8, e67492. of population genetics Diagram for Ecologists. J.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pone.00 parameters and their Stat. Softw. 22, 1–20.
67492) associated errors. Methods (doi:10.1.1.177.8850)
25. Woll AK, Bakke S, Aas GH, Ecol. Evol. 4, 782–788. 43. Kopelman NM, Mayzel J,
Solevåg SE, Skiftesvik AB, (doi:10.1111/2041- Jakobsson M, Rosenberg
Bjelland RM. 2013 Velferd 210X.12067) NA, Mayrose I. 2015
leppefisk i merd. 33. R Core Team. 2015 R: a CLUMPAK: a program for
26. Blanco Gonzalez E, de Boer language and environment identifying clustering
F. 2017 The development of for statistical computing. R modes and packaging
the Norwegian wrasse foundation for statistical population structure
fishery and the use of computing. Vienna, inferences across K. Mol.
wrasses as cleaner fish in Austria. See http://www.r- Ecol. Resour. 15, 1179–1191.
the salmon aquaculture project.org. (doi:10.1111/1755-
industry. Fish. Sci. 34. Weir BS, Cockerham CC. 0998.12387)
(doi:10.1007/s12562-017- 1984 Estimating F-Statistics 44. Earl DA, Von Holdt BM.
1110-4) for the analysis of 2012 STRUCTURE
27. Wang S, Meyer E, McKay population structure. HARVESTER: a website
JK, Matz M V. 2012 2b- Evolution (N. Y). 38, 1358– and program for visualizing
RAD: a simple and flexible 1370. STRUCTURE output and
method for genome-wide 35. Louis EJ, Dempster ER. implementing the Evanno
genotyping. Nat. Methods 9, 1987 An Exact Test for method. Conserv. Genet.
808–810. Hardy-Weinberg and Resour. 4, 359–361.
(doi:10.1038/nmeth.2023) Multiple Alleles. Int. (doi:10.1007/s12686-011-
28. Matz M V, Aglyamova G. Biometric Soc. 43, 805–811. 9548-7)
2014 Protocol for Illumina 36. Benjamini Y, Hochberg Y. 45. Jombart T. 2008 Adegenet:
2bRAD sample preparation. 1995 Controlling the false A R package for the
See discovery rate: a practical multivariate analysis of
http://www.bio.utexas.edu/ and powerful approach to genetic markers.
research/matz_lab/matzlab/ multiple testing. J. R. Stat. Bioinformatics 24, 1403–1405.
Methods_files/2bRAD_prot Soc. Ser. B. 57, 289–300. (doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/
ocol-1.pdf (accessed on 26 (doi:10.2307/2346101) btn129)
May 2017). 37. Chang CC, Chow CC, 46. Jombart T, Ahmed I. 2011
29. De Wit P. 2016 IB14_2b- Tellier LCAM, Vattikuti S, adegenet 1.3-1: New tools
R. Soc. open sci.
for the analysis of genome- 55. Kirkpatrick M, Barton NH. Values and Risks of Life on
wide SNP data. 1997 Evolution of a species’ the Edge. Fisheries 35, 530–
Bioinformatics 27, 3070–3071. range. Am. Nat. 150, 1–23. 549. (doi:10.1577/1548-8446-
(doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/ (doi:10.1086/286054) 35.11.530)
btr521) 56. Treasurer JW. 2012 Diseases 62. Rehm EM, Olivas P, Stroud
47. Rousset F. 2008 of north European wrasse J, Feeley KJ. 2015 Losing
GENEPOP’007: A complete (Labridae) and possible your edge : climate change
re-implementation of the interactions with cohabited and the conservation value
GENEPOP software for farmed salmon, Salmo salar of range-edge populations
Windows and Linux. Mol. L. J. Fish Dis. 35, 555–62. When will Range-edge
Ecol. Resour. 8, 103–106. (doi:10.1111/j.1365- Populations be. Ecol. Evol.
(doi:10.1111/j.1471- 2761.2012.01389.x) 14, 4315–4326.
8286.2007.01931.x) 57. Wallace IS, Donald K, (doi:10.1002/ece3.1645)
48. Wringe BF, Stanley RRE, Munro LA, Murray W, Pert 63. Halvorsen KT. 2017
Jeffery NW, Anderson EC, CC, Stagg H, Hall M, Bain Selective harvesting and life
Bradbury IR. 2017 N. 2015 A survey of wild history variability of
HYBRIDDETECTIVE: A marine fish identifies a corkwing and goldsinny
workflow and package to potential origin of an wrasse in Norway:
facilitate the detection of outbreak of viral Implications for
hybridization using haemorrhagic septicaemia management and
genomic data in R. Mol. in wrasse, Labridae, used as conservation. Doctoral
Ecol. Resour. 17, e275–e284. cleaner fish on marine thesis, University of Oslo
(doi:10.1111/1755- Atlantic salmon, Salmo
0998.12704) salar L., farms. J. Fish Dis.
49. Anderson EC, Thompson E 38, 515–521.
a. 2002 A model-based (doi:10.1111/jfd.12259)
method for identifying 58. Murray AG. 2017 A model
species hybrids using of the process of spillover
multilocus data. Genetics and adaption leading to
160, 1217–1229. potential emergence of
50. Allendorf FW, Luikar G, disease in salmon held with
Aitken SN. 2013 cleaner fish used to control
Conservation and the genetics lice. Aquaculture 473, 283–
of populations. 2nd edn. 290.
Wiley-Blackwell. (doi:10.1016/j.aquaculture.2
51. Olsen AB, Jensen BB, Nilsen 017.02.028)
H, Grøntvedt RN, Gjerset B, 59. Currens KP, Hemmingsen
Taksdal T, Høgåsen HR. AR, French RA, Buchanan
2011 Risikovurdering for D V., Schreck CB, Li HW.
spredning av pancreas 1997 Introgression and
disease virus (PD-virus) susceptibility to disease in a
ved bruk av leppefisk i wild population of rainbow
norsk laksefiskoppdrett. trout. North Am. J. Fish.
52. Swedish Agency for Marin Manag. 17, 1065–1078.
and Water Management. (doi:10.1577/1548-
2017 Swedish exempted 8675(1997)017<1065:IASTDI
fishing permits. >2.3.CO;2)
53. Lenormand T. 2002 Gene 60. Goldberg TL, Grant EC,
flow and the limits to Inendino KR, Kassler TW,
natural selection. Trends Claussen JE, Philipp DP.
Ecol. Evol. 17, 183–189. 2005 Increased Infectious
(doi:10.1016/S0169- Disease Susceptibility
5347(02)02497-7) Resulting from
54. Gibson SY, Marel RC Van Outbreeding Depression.
Der, Starzomski BM. 2009 Conserv. Biol. 19, 455–462.
Climate Change and (doi:10.1111/j.1523-
Conservation of Leading- 1739.2005.00091.x)
Edge Peripheral 61. Haak AL, Williams JE,
Populations. Conserv. Biol. Neville HM, Dauwalter DC,
23, 1369–1373. Colyer WT. 2010
(doi:10.1111/j.1523- Conserving Peripheral
1739.2009.01375.x) Trout Populations : The
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
11
Figures
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci.
R. Soc. open sci. article template
13
Figure captions
Figure 1. Map of sampling locations. Kristiansand, Strömstad and Kungsbacka are referred to as “southern population”,
Austevoll and Stavanger as “western population” and Flatanger as mid Norwegian population.
Figure 2. STRUCTURE cluster assignment of corkwing wrasse based on 4357 SNPs for K = 2 (top) and K = 3 (bottom). Each
vertical line represents one individual and the colour shows the proportion of each individual assigned to the K different
genetic clusters. Individuals from Skagerrak/Kattegat cluster together (blue) and individuals from western Norway cluster
together (orange), visualising the genetic break between southern and western populations. Majority of individuals in mid
Norway (Flatanger) cluster with the western population, with the exception of FKH48 and FKH50, which cluster with
southern population, and FKH67, which does not group to either cluster.
Figure 3. First (x-axis) and second (y-axis) component of a principal component analysis (PCA) on 240 corkwing wrasse
individuals from 6 locations based on 4357 SNPs. The first component explains 13.1% of the total variation and the second
1.89%. Additional components explain less than 1% of the total variance each, and are not shown. Each point represents
one individuals, which are colour coded by sampling site. On the first axis, majority of individuals from Flatanger cluster
with individuals from western Norway (left), but two individuals from Flatanger (FKH48 and FKH50) cluster together
R. Soc. open sci.
individuals from Skagerrak/Kattegat (right) and one individual (FKH67) separates from both clusters. On the second axis,
individuals from Flatanger are more separated, but overall closer to Skagerrak/Kattegat than western Norway.
Figure 4. Hybrid analysis of all individuals (A) and individuals sampled in Flatanger (B) using the 200 SNPs with highest
FST estimates and no LD. Each vertical line represents one individual and its probability to belong to one of the six
genotype classes: pure western, pure southern, F1 hybrid (50:50 western:southern), F2 hybrid (none present) or
backcrosses (75% western or southern) between F1 and pure western or pure southern. Hybrids are only detected in
Flatanger and the two samples next to the genetic break, Stavanger and Kristiansand. Out of the 40 individuals from
Flatanger, we discovered two individuals with clear southern genotypes (FKH48 and FKH50), one first generation hybrid
(FKH67), and twelve potential second-generation hybrids (light orange).
Figure 5. Hybrid detection power at different probability thresholds based on three sets of simulated genotype data from
200 SNPs with the highest over all FST and no LD. Solid lines represent the 6 genotype classes, pure parents (PopA =
western population and PopB = southern population), first and second-generation hybrids (F1 and F2) and backcrosses
(BC_A and BC_B). The dashed lines stand for the standard deviation among the simulations for each class.
Figure 6. Boxplots showing length-at-age for corkwing wrasse sampled in Flatanger. FKH48, FKH50 and FKH67 are
individuals with genotypes closely resembling southern populations.
R. Soc. open sci.
Society Open
