Modelling tooth <U+0336> prey interactions in sharks: the importance
of dynamic testing
Katherine A. Corn, Stacy C. Farina, Jeffrey Brash and Adam P. Summers
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160141.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160141
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 7 June 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 28 June 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 29 June 2016
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160141.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lisa Whitenack)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No - needs a statement on how to get the supporting data.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attatchment. See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160141)
10-May-2016
Dear Miss Corn,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Modeling tooth-prey interactions in sharks - the importance
of dynamic testing.") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 02-Jun-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
3
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160141
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
4
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attatchment
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160141)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160141.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lisa Whitenack)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I think that the changes made by the authors to the manuscript add clarity and I appreciate their
willingness to do so. The comments below are fairly minor, and I think that the manuscript is
generally ready for publication.
Well done!
Lisa Whitenack
• Figure 5: People who are red-green colorblind will not be able to discern between tiger
sharks and six gills. I would suggest either changing one of the colors or, alternatively, keeping
the colors but also give the data points different shapes.
5
• Also from Fig. 5: I’m struck by the range of cutting ability values for C. falciformis, as
compared to the other species. There’s a range of roughly 4 for C. f. and 2-3 for G.c. (depending
on if you count the value near 1 or not). I wonder if this is worth commenting on or not – whether
it has to do with wear on a particular side of the tooth, etc.
• Results, line 121: ANOVAs have 2 values for degrees of freedom – one for the main term,
and one for the interaction. You need to include that as well.
• Discussion, line 148: probably should have a citation for the link between cold water and
slow tooth replacement.
• Acknowledgements: If you’re going to put a “Dr.” in front of the other Ph.D.’s names,
there should be one in front of mine too. :)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160141.R1)
21-Jun-2016
Dear Miss Corn:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160141.R1
entitled "Modeling tooth-prey interactions in sharks - the importance of dynamic testing." has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160141.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
6
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 30-Jun-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
7
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Sceince
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I think that the changes made by the authors to the manuscript add clarity and I appreciate their
willingness to do so. The comments below are fairly minor, and I think that the manuscript is
generally ready for publication.
Well done!
Lisa Whitenack
• Figure 5: People who are red-green colorblind will not be able to discern between tiger
sharks and six gills. I would suggest either changing one of the colors or, alternatively, keeping
the colors but also give the data points different shapes.
• Also from Fig. 5: I’m struck by the range of cutting ability values for C. falciformis, as
compared to the other species. There’s a range of roughly 4 for C. f. and 2-3 for G.c. (depending
on if you count the value near 1 or not). I wonder if this is worth commenting on or not – whether
it has to do with wear on a particular side of the tooth, etc.
• Results, line 121: ANOVAs have 2 values for degrees of freedom – one for the main term,
and one for the interaction. You need to include that as well.
• Discussion, line 148: probably should have a citation for the link between cold water and
slow tooth replacement.
• Acknowledgements: If you’re going to put a “Dr.” in front of the other Ph.D.’s names,
there should be one in front of mine too. :)
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160141.R1)
See Appendix C.
pendix A
s manuscript describes a novel apparatus for testing shark tooth mechanics (the Jawzall) and how
amic testing yields some different results as compared to static analysis. I am happy to see this type
xperimental work, as it is a natural next step after single-tooth testing. I think that the science itself
olid, however I do have some requests for clarification and other suggestions. I also think it would be
at to have one of your videos as a supplement to your article, or at least an embedded link in your
nuscript so that your readers can see it in action.
the best,
Whitenack
oduction
e 2, Lines 32-33: You state that a “single tooth can usually be attributed to a particular species”.
ile this may be true for many of the species that you used here, and for many sharks with large teeth
h as many of the lamniforms, this is not true across the board. Carcharhinus teeth in particular are
oriously difficult to attribute to species without the rest of the body (e.g. Branstetter 1992, Naylor &
rcus 1994). Teeth from small-bodied sharks, such as catsharks, can also be really difficult to identify.
a nit-picky point, and I understand that you’re driving home the idea that sharks have a lot of tooth
ersity. Perhaps a better way would be to simply show a figure of some of the crazy diversity we do
e in our modern sharks. This would actually help out my next point….
e 2, Lines 33-34: You point us to Fig. 1A as an illustration of shark tooth diversity, specifically spear-
ped, deeply notched, and multi-cusped. Are you implying that C. falciformis is an example of spear-
ped? I think putting an example of a species with each of those shapes in parentheses after each
pe (i.e. spear-shaped) would help clarify. If possible to add another figure, I would make a figure
uld be line drawings or photos) of some of the diversity of shark teeth to illustrate the point above,
king sure that the 4 species you tested are included in that figure. This also relates to a question I had
arding the two Carcharhinus species and how their tooth shape differs. Based on my experience,
se two species have slightly different tooth morphologies. It may not be enough to represent a
ctional difference, but it would still be helpful to see them both in a figure.
e 3, lines 44-45: You state that “most sharks feed with an open-mouthed strike, followed by vigorous
rapid head shaking”. I think this is large-shark-centric, and the references you’ve cited here support
t idea. Again, I’m being nit-picky, but given how many small sharks there are, can this statement
lly be made about most sharks?
thods
re are few places that need more description. I think I could build my own Jawzall based on this
cription, which is great. However, I could use more details regarding the blades themselves, the wear
eriment, and the formula you used to calculate tooth cutting ability.
e 3, Lines 53-57: For consistency with the introduction, it may help to use your previous shape
criptors (i.e. spear-shaped) if they apply to these species.
e 3-4, Lines 59-61: Does this mean that you had separate blades for upper and lower jaw teeth for
rs & sixgills?
e 4, Line 67: Some of these species, particularly the Carcharhinus species, have overlapping tooth
es lashed together with collagen fibers. However, you arranged teeth end to end. Do you think this
uenced your results?
e 5, Line 85: Did you start the trials with the tooth touching the prey or embedded in the prey?
ase clarify.
e 5, Line 89-92: I have some questions about the formula that you used for cutting ability, and it
stly can be encompassed as “why?”. I would like to see the reasoning behind the variables and their
cement within the formula, as well as more explanation. For example, why is l in the denominator
ce? Was this equation pulled from mammal literature, or something you derived? Should the length
he tooth cusp (apex to base) or the distal cutting edge be represented, as the length of that cutting
e will help determine how much cutting is possible in a single stroke? As it stands now, I think a high
mber represents a high cutting ability, correct?
e 5, Lines 92-95: One thing that I am not clear on is how many blades of each tooth type were used
each experiment. For just the cutting ability part, I think you used 3 blades for each species, but then
move forward to the results, it looks like you perhaps combined the two Carcharhinus species? But
n you move on to talk about just C. falciformis (Line 102). You need to clarify exactly what you did
h those two species for the experiments, and if you did combine the two species, justify that and
te it in the methods. I also am not clear on whether you are pooling the upper and lower jaw teeth
one experimental group for the sixgills and for the tigers. Doing it for the tigers is negligible, I think,
for the sixgills, those are two very differently shaped teeth and I am not sure they should be pooled
ether for statistics. Please clarify this part.
ults
e 5, Lines 99-102 & Figure 2: I have questions about your statistics. First, you report n=9. This implies
t there were actually 9 blades per species, not 3 per 3 species. Which one is correct? You also should
reporting your degrees of freedom for our ANOVA, which allows your readers to assess whether
’ve partitioned your data correctly (which is what I’m unsure about given n=9). Second, your
ividual sample sizes are fairly low (n=3, if I understand correctly). Given that, I would rather see a plot
h the three data points for each species on it, instead of a box and whiskers plot, which can be
ewhat misleading without showing the data themselves.
ure 2: In your figure caption, it would be helpful to remind of us of the sample size for each species.
at units are cutting performance in (cm-1?). Lastly, I think it would be more helpful to have drawings
he teeth instead of silhouettes of the shark bodies here. Just a suggestion.
ge 5, Lines 102-104: Again, I would like to see the data. How much of a decrease in performance are
talking about? Either a simple line graph or even reporting the tooth cutting ability at 3 separate
e points would work.
cussion
ink it might be useful to add in some discussion of what we know about tooth replacement rates to
pport that part of your discussion. Can you speculate on whether sixgills replace teeth less frequently
n carcharhinids, given what we know about what affects tooth replacement rates in other sharks?
ge 6, Line 110-112: Do sixgills headshake? Do we know anything about their feeding behavior?
Appendix B
Reviewer #1
“This manuscript describes a novel apparatus for testing shark tooth mechanics (the
Jawzall) and how dynamic testing yields some different results as compared to static
analysis. I am happy to see this type of experimental work, as it is a natural next step after
single-tooth testing. I think that the science itself is solid, however I do have some
requests for clarification and other suggestions. I also think it would be great to have one
of your videos as a supplement to your article, or at least an embedded link in your
manuscript so that your readers can see it in action.
“All the best, Lisa Whitenack”
Authors: Thank you for your time and comments. We appreciate the feedback and
feel that it has greatly improved the manuscript. We have added two supplemental
videos.
Introduction
Reviewer: “Page 2, Lines 32-33: You state that a ‘single tooth can usually be attributed to
a particular species’. While this may be true for many of the species that you used here,
and for many sharks with large teeth such as many of the lamniforms, this is not true
across the board. Carcharhinus teeth in particular are notoriously difficult to attribute to
species without the rest of the body (e.g. Branstetter 1992, Naylor & Marcus 1994). Teeth
from small-bodied sharks, such as catsharks, can also be really difficult to identify. It’s a
nit-picky point, and I understand that you’re driving home the idea that sharks have a lot
of tooth diversity. Perhaps a better way would be to simply show a figure of some of the
crazy diversity we do have in our modern sharks. This would actually help out my next
point....”
Authors: We have altered the wording to indicate that only some sharks can be
identified of their teeth (new lines 33-34).
Reviewer: “Page 2, Lines 33-34: You point us to Fig. 1A as an illustration of shark tooth
diversity, specifically spear- shaped, deeply notched, and multi-cusped. Are you implying
that C. falciformis is an example of spear- shaped? I think putting an example of a species
with each of those shapes in parentheses after each shape (i.e. spear-shaped) would help
clarify. If possible to add another figure, I would make a figure (could be line drawings or
photos) of some of the diversity of shark teeth to illustrate the point above, making sure
that the 4 species you tested are included in that figure. This also relates to a question I
had regarding the two Carcharhinus species and how their tooth shape differs. Based on
my experience, these two species have slightly different tooth morphologies. It may not
be enough to represent a functional difference, but it would still be helpful to see them
both in a figure.”
Authors: We have added Figure 1, a photographic/line drawing depiction of teeth,
including the Carcharhinus species, and added an example taxon to each of the
descriptions of tooth morphological diversity. We do not feel that the morphological
distinction between the two species of Carcharhinus is sufficient to cause functional
differences, but have included both.
Reviewer: “Page 3, lines 44-45: You state that ‘most sharks feed with an open-mouthed
strike, followed by vigorous and rapid head shaking’. I think this is large-shark-centric,
and the references you’ve cited here support that idea. Again, I’m being nit-picky, but
given how many small sharks there are, can this statement really be made about most
sharks?”
Authors: We agree that we are representing generally large sharks with our original
statement and that it is an inaccurate representation of all sharks. We have modified
our statement to specify that we reference large sharks (new line 46).
Methods
Reviewer: “There are few places that need more description. I think I could build my own
Jawzall based on this description, which is great. However, I could use more details
regarding the blades themselves, the wear experiment, and the formula you used to
calculate tooth cutting ability.
Authors: We added details on the blades (new lines 63-66), the wear experiment
(new lines 109-111 and Figure 5), and the formula used to calculate cutting ability
(new lines 102-107).
Reviewer: “Page 3, Lines 53-57: For consistency with the introduction, it may help to use
your previous shape descriptors (i.e. spear-shaped) if they apply to these species.”
Authors: We feel that by explicitly referencing the notch of the tiger shark teeth and
the series of cusps, we have been adequately consistent for those two taxa. For the
third taxon, the ‘spear-shaped’ descriptor is not appropriate for the relevant taxa
and so we do not include it.
Reviewer: “Page 3-4, Lines 59-61: Does this mean that you had separate blades for upper
and lower jaw teeth for tigers & sixgills?”
Authors: This does mean that we have separate blades for lower and upper teeth of
sixgills and combined both upper and lower jaw teeth of the tiger shark teeth. We
have clarified the statement to articulate this more clearly (new lines 115-118).
Reviewer: “Page 4, Line 67: Some of these species, particularly the Carcharhinus
species, have overlapping tooth bases lashed together with collagen fibers. However, you
arranged teeth end to end. Do you think this influenced your results?”
We agree that this may have influenced our results, but feel that it was an
unavoidable parameter of our testing system. We have added a comment to the
discussion suggesting that this parameter can be accounted for in future designs
(new lines 167-169).
Reviewer: Page 5, Line 85: Did you start the trials with the tooth touching the prey or
embedded in the prey? Please clarify.
We have added a sentence describing the distance the saw was allowed to drop onto
the prey item (new lines 83-85).
Reviewer: “Page 5, Line 89-92: I have some questions about the formula that you used
for cutting ability, and it mostly can be encompassed as “why?”. I would like to see the
reasoning behind the variables and their placement within the formula, as well as more
explanation. For example, why is l in the denominator twice? Was this equation pulled
from mammal literature, or something you derived? Should the length of the tooth cusp
(apex to base) or the distal cutting edge be represented, as the length of that cutting edge
will help determine how much cutting is possible in a single stroke? As it stands now, I
think a high number represents a high cutting ability, correct?”
We have added several sentences to clarify (new lines 100-108). We felt that
measuring the length of the tooth, rather than the height (apex to base) was more
reflective of the variation in the teeth, given the elongate nature of teeth of
Hexanchus griseus.
Reviewer: “Page 5, Lines 92-95: One thing that I am not clear on is how many blades of
each tooth type were used for each experiment. For just the cutting ability part, I think
you used 3 blades for each species, but then as I move forward to the results, it looks like
you perhaps combined the two Carcharhinus species? But then you move on to talk
about just C. falciformis (Line 102). You need to clarify exactly what you did with those
two species for the experiments, and if you did combine the two species, justify that and
state it in the methods. I also am not clear on whether you are pooling the upper and
lower jaw teeth into one experimental group for the sixgills and for the tigers. Doing it
for the tigers is negligible, I think, but for the sixgills, those are two very differently
shaped teeth and I am not sure they should be pooled together for statistics. Please clarify
this part.”
Authors: We added clarification regarding the tooth types with the Carcharhinus
species (new lines 76-79). We did combine the two Carcharhinus species for the
cutting ability experiment. We have clarified that we only used C. falciformis for the
wear experiment, which required repeated testing of a single blade (new line 111-
112). We pooled upper and lower jaw teeth for H. griseus and feel that they are not
different enough to warrant different treatment.
Results
Page 5, Lines 99-102 & Figure 2: I have questions about your statistics. First, you report
n=9. This implies that there were actually 9 blades per species, not 3 per 3 species. Which
one is correct? You also should be reporting your degrees of freedom for our ANOVA,
which allows your readers to assess whether you’ve partitioned your data correctly
(which is what I’m unsure about given n=9). Second, your individual sample sizes are
fairly low (n=3, if I understand correctly). Given that, I would rather see a plot with the
three data points for each species on it, instead of a box and whiskers plot, which can be
somewhat misleading without showing the data themselves.
We have added degrees of freedom for the ANOVA (df = 2) and removed the
confusing n (new lines 121-122). We have altered the plot to include points, but feel
that inclusion of the box and whiskers adds ease of interpretation to the reader.
Figure 2: In your figure caption, it would be helpful to remind of us of the sample size for
each species. What units are cutting performance in (cm-1?). Lastly, I think it would be
more helpful to have drawings of the teeth instead of silhouettes of the shark bodies here.
Just a suggestion.
We have added the units of cutting performance (cm/reciprocation) to the y axis of
the graph. We have added the sample size to the figure caption. We have replaced
the silhouettes of the shark bodies with drawings of the teeth.
Page 5, Lines 102-104: Again, I would like to see the data. How much of a decrease in
performance are we talking about? Either a simple line graph or even reporting the tooth
cutting ability at 3 separate time points would work.
We have added a figure (Figure 5), a graph of our wear data.
Discussion
I think it might be useful to add in some discussion of what we know about tooth
replacement rates to support that part of your discussion. Can you speculate on whether
sixgills replace teeth less frequently than carcharhinids, given what we know about what
affects tooth replacement rates in other sharks?
We know that lower temperatures tend to associate with slower tooth replacement
rates in sharks. Sixgills also live in deeper and likely colder water than
Carcharhinids and tiger sharks. We comment on this in new lines 148-149.
Page 6, Line 110-112: Do sixgills headshake? Do we know anything about their feeding
behavior?
Bluntnose sixgill sharks do exhibit a head-shaking behavior. We have included this
in new line 135.
Appendix C
Reviewer: “I think that the changes made by the authors to the manuscript add
clarity and I appreciate their willingness to do so. The comments below are fairly
minor, and I think that the manuscript is generally ready for publication.
Well done!
Lisa Whitenack”
Authors: Thank you for your comments! We appreciate your feedback and
feel that it has improved the manuscript significantly.
Reviewer: “Figure 5: People who are red-green colorblind will not be able to
discern between tiger sharks and six gills. I would suggest either changing one of
the colors or, alternatively, keeping the colors but also give the data points
different shapes.”
Authors: We have given the data points different shapes and kept the
different colors.
Reviewer: “Also from Fig. 5: I’m struck by the range of cutting ability values for
C. falciformis, as compared to the other species. There’s a range of roughly 4 for
C. f. and 2-3 for G.c. (depending on if you count the value near 1 or not). I
wonder if this is worth commenting on or not – whether it has to do with wear on a
particular side of the tooth, etc.”
Authors: We have included a comment regarding the high variation of
cutting ability of C. falciformis in lines 124-125.
Reviewer: “Results, line 121: ANOVAs have 2 values for degrees of freedom –
one for the main term, and one for the interaction. You need to include that as
well.”
Authors: We have added and clarified among- and within-group degrees of
freedom (line 121).
Reviewer: “Discussion, line 148: probably should have a citation for the link
between cold water and slow tooth replacement.”
Authors: We have added the appropriate citation in line 149.
Reviewer: “Acknowledgements: If you’re going to put a “Dr.” in front of the other
Ph.D.’s names, there should be one in front of mine too. :)”
Authors: We have added the appropriate title for Dr. Whitenack.
Society Open
