Seasonality and pathogen transmission in pastoral cattle
contact networks
Kimberly VanderWaal, Marie Gilbertson, Sharon Okanga, Brian F. Allan and Meggan E.
Craft
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170808.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170808
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170808.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper addresses how contact networks in livestock are shaped by seasonal differences in
resource availability and distribution, and the effects this has on disease dynamics. While
livestock contact networks are commonplace now, the key difference in this study is that it is
based on nomadic/pastoralist herd movements, rather than the prescribed movement of herds
from one farm to another. The study uses GPS loggers to track the movement of herds and
farmers, and deduce contact between herds via synchronous spatial proximity. The authors find
that networks are more connected in the dry season than the wet season, leading to larger
predicted disease outbreaks in the dry season. Overall the study is interesting, well presented,
and enjoyable to read. It provides a novel contribution to the field of disease ecology. I have only
a couple of minor comments.
Lines 185 – 190: Here the authors say that permuted p-values were calculated. However the
nature of the permutations are not specified. Were the original observations permuted (therefore
the permutation accounts for the structure of observations) or were just the herd-based measures
shuffled? This is important for understanding the underlying assumptions of your analysis.
Figure 4 – herds are numbered in (a) but represented by letters in (b). I can see that one reason for
doing this is because the communities are composed of different herds in each season. However,
it might be helpful to mention this briefly in the figure caption to eliminate any confusion.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170808)
24-Oct-2017
Dear Dr VanderWaal
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170808 entitled
"Seasonality and pathogen transmission in pastoral cattle contact networks" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
3
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170808
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
4
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Please make clear the nature by which permuted p-values were calculated.
Please address comments relating to consistency of Figure labelling.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper addresses how contact networks in livestock are shaped by seasonal differences in
resource availability and distribution, and the effects this has on disease dynamics. While
5
livestock contact networks are commonplace now, the key difference in this study is that it is
based on nomadic/pastoralist herd movements, rather than the prescribed movement of herds
from one farm to another. The study uses GPS loggers to track the movement of herds and
farmers, and deduce contact between herds via synchronous spatial proximity. The authors find
that networks are more connected in the dry season than the wet season, leading to larger
predicted disease outbreaks in the dry season. Overall the study is interesting, well presented,
and enjoyable to read. It provides a novel contribution to the field of disease ecology. I have only
a couple of minor comments.
Lines 185 – 190: Here the authors say that permuted p-values were calculated. However the
nature of the permutations are not specified. Were the original observations permuted (therefore
the permutation accounts for the structure of observations) or were just the herd-based measures
shuffled? This is important for understanding the underlying assumptions of your analysis.
Figure 4 – herds are numbered in (a) but represented by letters in (b). I can see that one reason for
doing this is because the communities are composed of different herds in each season. However,
it might be helpful to mention this briefly in the figure caption to eliminate any confusion.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170808)
Response to Reviewers
Below are the reviewers’ comments in their entirety. Our responses are indicated with (**). We
would like to thank the reviewers for their constructive comments, and we are grateful for their
service.
Reviewers' comments:
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper addresses how contact networks in livestock are shaped by seasonal differences in
resource availability and distribution, and the effects this has on disease dynamics. While
livestock contact networks are commonplace now, the key difference in this study is that it is
based on nomadic/pastoralist herd movements, rather than the prescribed movement of herds
from one farm to another. The study uses GPS loggers to track the movement of herds and
farmers, and deduce contact between herds via synchronous spatial proximity. The authors find
that networks are more connected in the dry season than the wet season, leading to larger
predicted disease outbreaks in the dry season. Overall the study is interesting, well presented,
and enjoyable to read. It provides a novel contribution to the field of disease ecology. I have only
a couple of minor comments.
Lines 185 – 190: Here the authors say that permuted p-values were calculated. However the
nature of the permutations are not specified. Were the original observations permuted (therefore
the permutation accounts for the structure of observations) or were just the herd-based measures
shuffled? This is important for understanding the underlying assumptions of your analysis.
6
** We have added the clarifying text to L186-189: “Tests for significant differences between the
herd-level metrics for each network were completed by ANOVA with permutated p-values using
the aovp function in the R package lmPerm (Wheeler 2016). In addition, two-sided t-tests with
permutated p-values, performed using the permTS function in the R package perm (Fay and
Shaw 2015), were used to test for significant differences in degree between the dry and wet
season.” Node-based measures were permutated. Randomization of movement trajectories was
not done.
Figure 4 – herds are numbered in (a) but represented by letters in (b). I can see that one reason for
doing this is because the communities are composed of different herds in each season. However,
it might be helpful to mention this briefly in the figure caption to eliminate any confusion.
** Yes, the reviewer is correct in that this is exactly the reason that we chose to use
letters/numbers for the different seasons. We have added the following text to lines 311-313: “We
used numbers in the dry season and letters in the wet season to indicate community identities to
emphasize that the communities are composed of different herds each season.”
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170808.R1)
01-Nov-2017
Dear Dr VanderWaal,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Seasonality and pathogen transmission
in pastoral cattle contact networks" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
