A mathematical model of marine bacteriophage evolution
Silvia Pagliarini and Andrei Korobeinikov
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171661.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171661
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 30 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171661.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (GC Wake)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a well-constructed paper on an important topic. The extension to stochastic SI models is
well-done. After the points below are addressed I recommend it be published.
1. p.7, line 48: "quadrant" is not correct in 4-dimensions. The phenotype space is R+^4, of the
sixteen possible. Reword.
2. p.8 line 22. Need to explain how the delta function gives rise to the dispersion termin the
equation for i(r,t). For me I think it arises from the stochastic d.e. and is part of the Fokker -
planck derivation The i,p are pdfs for the I,P cohorts.
3. p.8, lines 46-51: at this stage r is a 4-dimension varible of the phenotype variables. Hence the
boundary conditions are stated wrongly.The natural boundary condition for i is a Robin-type of
condition. Either make the simplification on p.9 line 16, earlier or rewrite p.8.
p.9, line 16: "four" not "for".
p 9 line 47-8: Again the boundary condition for i should be a Robin type.
p.12 line 34: American spelling of "travelling".
You give numerical value of single variable r. Has it got the dimensions of the corresponding
phenotype variable? Please clarify.
p. 15 Author's contributions: numerous typos: "writing". "These" should be "This", three times.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Authors study evolution of bacteriophages. In their model, the only property that can change in
evolution is k – coefficient that characterises virulence (the rate constant of transition Susceptible
Bacteria+Bacteriophage\to “Ill” bacteria). All the results are correct and expected: the evolution
increases the virulence; the rate of this evolution increases in time until the density of bacterial
3
population drops down too much (and if we keep this density constant by an external source
then this accelerating evolution will continue. It can be also predicted that if more virulent
bacteriophages will affect the bacteria less, then the evolution will be faster, and if they affect the
bacteria more, then the interplay between virulence and mortality will stop evolution a some
point.
From my point of view, the paper is correct and could be published but more scientific adventure
will be much appreciated, especially for the OPEN SCIENCE.
For example, it could be interesting to discuss the data about rate and mechanisms of mutations
in viruses and compare them to the model (the classical review can help:
Duffy S, Shackelton LA, Holmes EC. Rates of evolutionary change in viruses: patterns and
determinants. Nature Reviews Genetics. 2008 Apr 1;9(4).)
The following paper may be also useful: Pal C, Maciá MD, Oliver A, Schachar I, Buckling A.
Coevolution with viruses drives the evolution of bacterial mutation rates. Nature. 2007 Dec
13;450(7172):1079-81.
At least a couple of words should be devoted to the coevolution of bacteria and bacteriophages
(“The coevolutionary arms race is asymmetrical”
Bohannan BJ, Lenski RE. Linking genetic change to community evolution: insights from studies
of bacteria and bacteriophage. Ecology letters. 2000 Jul 1;3(4):362-77.)
Viral Quasispecies Evolution is well-studied effect and a well-known review should be cited and
the results should be considered in context of the paper
Domingo E, Sheldon J, Perales C. Viral quasispecies evolution. Microbiology and Molecular
Biology Reviews. 2012 Jun 1;76(2):159-216.
I hope very much that the authors could add more adventure and biological content to the paper
without huge rewriting.
A minor comment: I cannot accept the statement about the mutation modelling:
“However, the dispersion, which corresponds to an integral operator with a kernel given by the
delta function, leads to a simple model and is “cheaper”.
Two corrections are needed. First, the kernel of the integral operator is not “the delta function” –
for delta function there will be no mutations at al. This is a special limit (and rather singular)
when the width of the kernel tends to zero whereas the intensity of jumps tends to infinity. The
result is the Brownian motion.
The second comment may be even more important: the hypothesis about small mutations may
contradict the biology (or may be acceptable –the literature review is needed).
The sentence: “The probability of such a mutation is small and quickly reaches zero as the
distance between the original and mutant genotypes grows,” is incorrect again: in the diffusion
approximation the very small mutations occur very often, all reproduction acts lead to mutations
according to Eq. (2) (just have a look into any textbook about theory of Brownian motion).
These comments are rather minor, just some editing of text is necessary.
The final judgement: the paper needs more adventure and more biology (can be done through the
literature analysis) and some minor corrections of discussion.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171661)
20-Dec-2017
Dear Dr Korobeinikov,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171661 entitled
"A mathematical model of marine bacteriophage evolution" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171661
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
5
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 29-Dec-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
6
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Franca Fraternali (Associate Editor) and Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a well-constructed paper on an important topic. The extension to stochastic SI models is
well-done. After the points below are addressed I recommend it be published.
1. p.7, line 48: "quadrant" is not correct in 4-dimensions. The phenotype space is R+^4, of the
sixteen possible. Reword.
2. p.8 line 22. Need to explain how the delta function gives rise to the dispersion termin the
equation for i(r,t). For me I think it arises from the stochastic d.e. and is part of the Fokker -
planck derivation The i,p are pdfs for the I,P cohorts.
3. p.8, lines 46-51: at this stage r is a 4-dimension varible of the phenotype variables. Hence the
boundary conditions are stated wrongly.The natural boundary condition for i is a Robin-type of
condition. Either make the simplification on p.9 line 16, earlier or rewrite p.8.
p.9, line 16: "four" not "for".
p 9 line 47-8: Again the boundary condition for i should be a Robin type.
p.12 line 34: American spelling of "travelling".
7
You give numerical value of single variable r. Has it got the dimensions of the corresponding
phenotype variable? Please clarify.
p. 15 Author's contributions: numerous typos: "writing". "These" should be "This", three times.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Authors study evolution of bacteriophages. In their model, the only property that can change in
evolution is k – coefficient that characterises virulence (the rate constant of transition Susceptible
Bacteria+Bacteriophage\to “Ill” bacteria). All the results are correct and expected: the evolution
increases the virulence; the rate of this evolution increases in time until the density of bacterial
population drops down too much (and if we keep this density constant by an external source
then this accelerating evolution will continue. It can be also predicted that if more virulent
bacteriophages will affect the bacteria less, then the evolution will be faster, and if they affect the
bacteria more, then the interplay between virulence and mortality will stop evolution a some
point.
From my point of view, the paper is correct and could be published but more scientific adventure
will be much appreciated, especially for the OPEN SCIENCE.
For example, it could be interesting to discuss the data about rate and mechanisms of mutations
in viruses and compare them to the model (the classical review can help:
Duffy S, Shackelton LA, Holmes EC. Rates of evolutionary change in viruses: patterns and
determinants. Nature Reviews Genetics. 2008 Apr 1;9(4).)
The following paper may be also useful: Pal C, Maciá MD, Oliver A, Schachar I, Buckling A.
Coevolution with viruses drives the evolution of bacterial mutation rates. Nature. 2007 Dec
13;450(7172):1079-81.
At least a couple of words should be devoted to the coevolution of bacteria and bacteriophages
(“The coevolutionary arms race is asymmetrical”
Bohannan BJ, Lenski RE. Linking genetic change to community evolution: insights from studies
of bacteria and bacteriophage. Ecology letters. 2000 Jul 1;3(4):362-77.)
Viral Quasispecies Evolution is well-studied effect and a well-known review should be cited and
the results should be considered in context of the paper
Domingo E, Sheldon J, Perales C. Viral quasispecies evolution. Microbiology and Molecular
Biology Reviews. 2012 Jun 1;76(2):159-216.
I hope very much that the authors could add more adventure and biological content to the paper
without huge rewriting.
A minor comment: I cannot accept the statement about the mutation modelling:
“However, the dispersion, which corresponds to an integral operator with a kernel given by the
delta function, leads to a simple model and is “cheaper”.
Two corrections are needed. First, the kernel of the integral operator is not “the delta function” –
for delta function there will be no mutations at al. This is a special limit (and rather singular)
when the width of the kernel tends to zero whereas the intensity of jumps tends to infinity. The
result is the Brownian motion.
The second comment may be even more important: the hypothesis about small mutations may
contradict the biology (or may be acceptable –the literature review is needed).
8
The sentence: “The probability of such a mutation is small and quickly reaches zero as the
distance between the original and mutant genotypes grows,” is incorrect again: in the diffusion
approximation the very small mutations occur very often, all reproduction acts lead to mutations
according to Eq. (2) (just have a look into any textbook about theory of Brownian motion).
These comments are rather minor, just some editing of text is necessary.
The final judgement: the paper needs more adventure and more biology (can be done through the
literature analysis) and some minor corrections of discussion.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171661)
See Appendices A & B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171661.R1)
02-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Korobeinikov,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A mathematical model of marine
bacteriophage evolution" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
9
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS COMMENTS
On behalves of both authors, I thanks both reviewers for their valu-
able comments and suggestions. We really appreciate your help and
your aords.
Regarding particular comments:
Reviewer 1
1. p.7, line 48: "quadrant" is not correct in 4-dimensions.
It is changed for orthant.
2. p.8 line 22. Need to explain how the delta function gives rise to
the dispersion term in the equation for i(r,t). For me I think it arises
from the stochastic d.e. and is part of the Fokker - Planck derivation
The i,p are pdfs for the I,P cohorts.
The reference to equivalence of integral and dierential operators in
the previous text was clumsy and not entirely correct. To say more
accurately: if one has an integral operator
Z
u(s) - K(s, r, s)u(r)dr
where kernel K(s, r) is symmetric and such that lims<U+2192>0 K(s, r, s) =
d(s, r) holds, and deviation s is small, then
 Z 
lim u(s) - K(s, r, s)u(r)dr = µ<U+2206>u(s).
s<U+2192>0
Or, what is the same, for small s,
Z
u(s) - K(s, r, s)u(r)dr = µ<U+2206>u(s) + O(s 4 ).
Coecient µin this case is proportional to s2.
The only reference to this fact that I managed to nd in the literature
(probably, I did not search persistently enough) is a small article on
the Kolmogorov-Chapmen equation in Russian Wikipedia (alas, this
is in Russian). In this article both forms, integral and dierential, are
given. Moreover, in this article (and in the mathematical tradition) the
dierential form is referred to as the Fokker-Plank equation whereas
the equivalent integral form as the Kolmogorov equation.
1
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS COMMENTS 2
As it appears that this issue needs to be explained in details, and such
an explanation goes far beyond paper scope, we prefer to remove the
reference to the equivalence of operators. Now the text is as following:
An integral operator provides more exibility and poten-
tially can describe more complicated features of real-life
systems (such as asymmetric mutations). However, the
dispersion leads to a simple model, is easier for analysis
and is cheaper for numerical simulations. For simplic-
ity, in this paper we prefer to use the dispersion opera-
tor.
3. p.8, lines 46-51: at this stage r is a 4-dimension variable of
the phenotype variables. Hence the boundary conditions are stated
wrongly.The natural boundary condition for i is a Robin-type of condi-
tion. Either make the simplication on p.9 line 16, earlier or rewrite
p.8.
You are right, and we changed both paragraph. One on p.8 we re-
write as
A particular choice for a phenotype space, <U+2126>, is arbi-
trary and to a large extend is a matter of convenience.
As the simplest (and probably the most natural) choice,
4 4
a 4-dim real space R = (-8, +8) can be used as the
phenotype space. In this paper, for convenience, we as-
sume that phenotype space is the positive 4-dimensional
4
orthant of the 4-dimensional real space, <U+2126> = R+ =
4
(0, +8) , and r <U+2208> <U+2126> is the space coordinate.
On on p.9 we re-right as
The model should be completed by initial and bound-
ary conditions. For an unbounded phenotype space, it
is natural to assume that i(8, t) = p(8, t) = 0 hold
everywhere at innity. For a bounded phenotype space,
a Robin-type conditions
<U+2202>i(r, t) <U+2202>p(r, t)
q = i(r, t), q = p(r, t),
<U+2202>n <U+2202>n
<U+2202>i(r,t) <U+2202>p(r,t)
where
<U+2202>n
, <U+2202>n are the normal derivatives to the bound-
ary, can be applied.
Furthermore, functions r(r), <U+03BB>(r), µ(r) and b(r) (that
is, the tness landscape ) should be dened.
p.9, line 16: "four" not "for".
It is corrected, thank you.
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS COMMENTS 3
p 9 line 47-8: Again the boundary condition for i should be a Robin
type.
It is done, thank you.
However, we have to note that simulations with the Robin BC pro-
duced exactly the same outcomes. (At least, one cannot see a dierence
with bare eyes. You can see this yourself: we changed all pictures for
the results obtained for the Robin conditions.)
This is hardly surprising, because when one changes an innite in-
terval by a nite in simulations, one must take care (as we did) that
the new boundaries are far enough from the area where all events oc-
cur. If this is properly done, the form of the BC should not matter.
Nevertheless, we are entirely agree with you that the Robin conditions
are natural, when such a truncation is to be done.
p.12 line 34: American spelling of "travelling".
All spelling is changed to British. (In particular, 13 traveling are
changed).
You give numerical value of single variable r. Has it got the dimen-
sions of the corresponding phenotype variable? Please clarify.
Thank you for this remark. You are completely right: r is a non-
dimensional variable and hence we cannot judge about speed of evo-
lution on the basis of its changes only. We re-write the paragraph as
following:
The simulations demonstrate that the self-sustained os-
cillations do not aect propagation of the travelling wave
and, hence, the progress of viral evolution. It may ini-
tially appear that Figures 1, 2, 4 and 5 show a slower
evolution in the oscillating system. However, we have to
remind that Figures 1 and 2, on one side, and Figures
4 and 5, on the other side, are produced for the t-
ness landscapes of dierent slopes. Specically, Figures
1 and 2 depict data for <U+03B6> = 0.002 ml/cell·day, whereas
Figures 4 and 5 are for <U+03B6> = 0.02 ml/cell·day. That is, in
Fig. 1 and 2, for 1000 days the mean value of k(r) = <U+03B6>r
of the viral quasi-species changes from 0.002 to 0.0116
ml/cell·day (and hence the mean value of R0 changes
from 1.48 to 8.288), whereas in Fig. 1, 2 for the same
1000 days the mean k(r) changes from 0.02 to 0.084
ml/cell·day (and hence the mean $R_0$ changes from
14.8 to 62.16). That is, in fact changes of viral tness
in Fig. 4, 5 occur faster. However, this acceleration of
evolution is most likely should be attributed to a higher
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS COMMENTS 4
tness and to a considerably larger slope of the tness
landscape.
p. 15 Author's contributions: numerous typos: "writing". "These"
should be "This", three times.
It is corrected, thank you.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Authors study evolution of bacteriophages. In their model, the only
property that can change in evolution is k  coecient that characterises
virulence (the rate constant of transition Susceptible Bacteria+Bacteriophage\to
 Ill bacteria).
It is not exactly correct. Indeed, in the simulations we allow that
only k can change. (This can be considered as better specialization).
However, our model allows evolution with respect to 4 parameters.
All the results are correct and expected: the evolution increases the
virulence; the rate of this evolution increases in time until the density
of bacterial population drops down too much (and if we keep this den-
sity constant by an external source then this accelerating evolution will
continue. It can be also predicted that if more virulent bacteriophages
will aect the bacteria less, then the evolution will be faster, and if
they aect the bacteria more, then the interplay between virulence and
mortality will stop evolution a some point.
I am very happy to here this: a goal of this paper is to introduce the
modelling concept and to show that modelling in evolutionary biology
is possible in this way. Your words conrm that this modelling concept
is (more or less) correct and produce biologically feasible results.
From my point of view, the paper is correct and could be published
but more scientic adventure will be much appreciated, especially for the
OPEN SCIENCE. For example, it could be interesting to discuss the
data about rate and mechanisms of mutations in viruses and compare
them to the model ...
We cannot do this: we consider processes on a population (quasi-
species) levels. Precise mechanism of mutation is about two levels
down.
At least a couple of words should be devoted to the coevolution of
bacteria and bacteriophages ( The coevolutionary arms race is asym-
metrical
We add the following paragraph at the end of Conclusion:
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS COMMENTS 5
In this model, we completely disregard the possibility of
co-evolution of the bacteria and pages and completely
neglect bacterial evolution. Apart from our intention
to keep the model as simple as possible, the major rea-
son for this assumption is a considerable (of orders of
magnitude) dierence in the characteristic time scales of
all processes (in particular reproduction and mutation
rates) in the interacting viral and bacterial populations.
We have to note, however, that the co-evolution can be
considered in the same modelling framework: in order
to do this, one has to assume existence of a multitude of
bacterial phenotypes (continuously distributed, for the
sake of consistency), dene a model for the bacterial mu-
tation mechanism (in the same way as it was done for
the virus), dene a bacterial phenotype space, <U+2126>b , dene
a bacteria tness landscape over this space, modify viral
tness landscape postulating its dependence on bacterial
phenotype, and then consider the same process in <U+2126>×<U+2126>b .
While such a task is not impossible, it would require
very large computational power. Nevertheless, despite
these diculties and due to these diculties, modelling
the co-evolution remains to be one of the most exit-
ing problems in evolutionary biology~\cite{Bohannan-
2000,Domingo-2012,Duy-2008,Pal-2007}
In more plain words: to model co-evolution we need regular access to
a supercomputer, that is far beyond of our capabilities. Moreover, my
common mathematical sense is against such direct modelling, because
the huge dierence of time scales of viral and bacterial evolutions. To
deal with such (so-called slow-fast, or singularly perturbed) problems,
mathematicians always separate the time scales. That is, in this case,
one (a mathematician) has to consider viral and bacterial evolutions
separately.
A minor comment: I cannot accept the statement about the mutation
modelling:  However, the dispersion, which corresponds to an integral
operator with a kernel given by the delta function, leads to a simple
model and is  cheaper .
Yes, you are right. it is corrected. Please see our response to Re-
viewer #1.
The sentence:  The probability of such a mutation is small and
quickly reaches zero as the distance between the original and mutant
genotypes grows, is incorrect again:
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS COMMENTS 6
The sentence is corrected as following:
We assume that the probability of such a mutation is
small and is quickly (e.g. exponentially) decreasing with
the growth of the distance between the original and mu-
tant genotypes.
Appendix B
A MATHEMATICAL MODEL OF MARINE BACTERIOPHAGE
EVOLUTION
SILVIA PAGLIARINI1,2 AND ANDREI KOROBEINIKOV2,3
1 Univestità degli Studi di Verona, Verona, Italy
silvia.pagliarini92@gmail.com
2 Centre de Recerca Matematica, Campus de Bellaterra, 08193 Barcelona, Spain
3 Departament de Matemàtiques, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Barcelona, Spain
akorobeinikov@crm.cat
Proposed running head: A model of marine bacteriophage
evolution
AMS Classification (MSC2010)
92D30 (primary), 34D20, 60H10 (secondary)
1
A BSTRACT. To explore how particularities of a host cell-virus sys-
tem, and in particularly host cells replication, affects viral evo-
lution, in this paper we formulate a mathematical model of ma-
rine bacteriophage evolution. The intrinsic simplicity of real-life
phage-bacteria systems, and in particularly aquatic systems, for
which the assumption of homogeneous mixing is well justified,
allows to have a reasonably simple model.
The model constructed in this paper is based upon Beretta-
Kuang model of bacteria-phage interaction in an aquatic envi-
ronment [3]. Compared to the original Beretta-Kuang model, the
model assumes the existence of a multitude of viral variants which
correspond to continuously distributed phenotypes. It is note-
worthy that the model is mechanistic (at least as far as the Beretta-
Kuang model is mechanistic). Moreover, this model does not in-
clude any explicit law or mechanism of evolution; instead it is
assumed, in agreement to the principles of Darwinian evolution,
that evolution in this system can occur as a result of random mu-
tations and natural selection.
Simulations with a simplistic leaner fitness landscape (which
is chosen for the convenience of demonstration only and is not
related to any real-life system) show that a pulse-type travelling
wave moving towards increasing Darwinian fitness appears in
the phenotype space. This implies that the overall fitness of a
viral quasispecies steadily increasing in time. That is, the simu-
lations demonstrate that for an uneven fitness landscape random
mutations combined with a mechanism of natural selection (for
this particular system this is given by the conspecific competition
for the resource) lead to the Darwinian evolution. It is notewor-
thy that in this system the speed of propagation of this wave (and
hence the rate of evolution) is not constant but varies, depend-
ing on the current viral fitness and the abundance of susceptible
bacteria.
A specific feature of the original Beretta-Kuang model is that
this model exhibits a supercritical Hopf bifurcation, leading to
the loss of stability and the rise of self-sustained oscillations in
the system. This phenomenon corresponds to the paradox of en-
richment in the system. It is remarkable that under the conditions
that ensure the bifurcation in the Beretta-Kuang model, the viral
evolution model formulated in this paper also exhibits a rise self-
sustained oscillations of the abundance of all interacting popula-
tions. The propagation of the travelling wave, however, remains
stable under these conditions. The only visible impact of the os-
cillations on viral evolution is a lower speed of the evolution.
Keywords: Virus dynamics, viral mutations, natural selection,
viral evolution, mathematical model, phenotype space, marine
bacteriophages, travelling wave, Darwinian fitness, Darwinian evo-
lution, paradox of enrichment, supercritical Hopf bifurcation
2
1. I NTRODUCTION
Due to very high replication rate combined with high mutabil-
ity, viruses are able to evolve considerably faster than larger cellu-
lar organisms. In many instances, viral mutations and evolution are
responsible for emergence of new pathogens and determine patho-
genesis of existing diseases. The high level of evolvability also makes
viruses a good model in evolutionary biology. Moreover, study of vi-
ral mutations and evolution is also indispensable for designing and
estimating efficacy of antiviral therapies and vaccination strategies,
for determining the risk of the development of drug resistance, and
other similar tasks.
Accordingly, during the last 20 years, a number of mathematical
models of viral evolution was suggested. Probably the first step in
this direction was done by C.M. Pease (1987) [17], who formulated
a simplistic model of inter-host viral evolution to study evolution-
ary changes in influenza A virus. Later L.S. Tsimring, H. Levine and
D.A. Kessler [23] suggested an elegant model of within-host RNA
virus evolution where virus types were assumed to be distributed in
a one-dimensional continuous space according to their fitness. The
use of a continuous fitness space allows to represent random mu-
tations by diffusion operator. The Tsimring-Levine-Kessler model
(the TLK model) exhibited a solution in the form of a pulse-type
travelling wave of evolution moving in the space towards higher fit-
ness. A. Sasaki and his collaborators [20, 8, 21] used a intra-host
pathogen-antibodies model with a discrete or continuous one-di-
mensional strain space to study antigenic drift and host-virus co-
evolution. These models exhibit evolution of antigen variants in the
form of a pulse-type travelling wave in the strain space. Lin et al. [14]
studied inter-host antigenic drift, using a generalization of the classi-
cal SIR model where mutations were included as a diffusion process
in a one-dimensional continuous phenotype space. This model also
exhibits travelling wave solutions.
While these and other recently suggested models brought impor-
tant insights into the problem, nearly all these models also possess an
apparent shortcoming. Specifically, the above mentioned models, as
well as the majority of other recently proposed models of viral evo-
lution, are essentially phenomenological. That is, while such models
can produce qualitative description of a process, biological interpre-
tation of obtained results, as well as model parameters, is dubious.
In contrast to phenomenological models, the so-called mechanis-
tic models are based upon a clearly defined set of assumptions and
hypothesis (the “first principles”). For mechanistic models, physical
or biological interpretation of results and model parameters is usu-
ally straightforward. This makes mechanistic models suitable for
3
complementing real-life experiments and verifying hypotheses, as
well as for quantitative (rather than qualitative) studies. However,
since mechanistic models necessarily take into consideration partic-
ularities of studied physical or biological systems, they are usually
considerably more complex than phenomenological models.
A reasonably simple mechanistic model of HIV within-host evo-
lution was recently suggested by Korobeinikov and Dampsey [12].
This model is based upon the Nowak and May model of HIV intra-
host dynamics [15] and is mechanistic (as far as the Nowak-May
model is mechanistic). Several variants of this model were consid-
ered [1, 10, 2, 11]. However, all these variants are also based on the
Nowak-May model, and hence their applicability to other virus-host
systems is questionable.
Compared to other viral dynamics models, the most notable par-
ticularity of the Nowak-May model is the target cells reproduction
mode. This model is specifically designed for HIV infection and pos-
tulates that the target cells (which in this case are T-helper lympho-
cytes) do not reproduce and that, instead, there is a continuous in-
flux of the cells into the system (from thymus, where they mature).
In contrast, in the majority virus-host systems the hosts reproduce
within the system, whereas their immigration into the system can be
complimentary assumed.
To explore potential impacts of particularities of a virus-host sys-
tem, and in particular impacts of the hosts reproduction modes, on
viral evolution, in this paper we construct a model of marine bacte-
riophages evolution that is based upon a model of marine bacterio-
phage dynamics suggested by E. Beretta and Y. Kuang [3]. The major
difference between the Beretta-Kuang model and the Nowak-May
model is the host cells reproduction mode. While this difference may
appear insignificant, it results in a distinctive dynamics exhibited by
the Beretta-Kuang model that makes it particularly attractive for our
objectives. Specifically, the Beretta-Kuang model exhibits the effect
of enrichment, that is the loss of stability and a rise of self-sustained
oscillations in response to an increment of the environment carrying
capacity.
A comparative simplicity of the aquatic bacteria-phages systems
makes them particularly suitable for our objectives. Thus, real-life
marine bacteria-phages systems typically comprise bacteria, pages
and nutrients. These systems do not include complications such as
immune response, which is an essential component of real-life virus-
human and virus-animal interactions. Furthermore, phages are usu-
ally host-specific and form stable phage-host bacteria couples. More-
over, aquatic environments are fairly homogeneous (at least on a
limited spacial scale that, however, is sufficiently large for modeling
4
bacteria-phages interaction), and the assumption of homogeneous
distribution of all components is well justified.
Background on bacteriophages. Bacteriophages are small viruses
that infect and replicate within bacteria, effectively killing their bac-
terial host. Bacteriophages were discovered independently by Fred-
erick Twort in 1915 and by Félix d’Herelle in 1917. However, the viral
nature of phages was recognized only after invention of the electron
microscope.
Bacteriophages are one of the most widespread and diverse en-
tities in the biosphere [9]. Sea water is one of the densest natu-
ral sources for phages and other viruses, where up to 9·108 virions
per milliliter have been found in microbial mats at the surface [24].
Moreover, it was estimated that up to 70% of marine bacteria may be
infected by phages [18].
Scientific interest to phages was significantly promoted by their
potential use against bacterial infectious diseases. Probably, the first
advance in this direction was made by d’Herelle, who used phages
to treat dysentery. However, d’Herelle did not published this study
immediately, and the first published report about the therapeutical
use of bacteriophages was made by Richard Bruynoghe and Joseph
Maisin in 1921, who use phages to treat a staphylococcal skin dis-
ease [22]. Research in this direction ceased 1960th when antibiotics
became widely available. However, low costs of such treatment, as
well as the development of antibiotic resistance by bacteria, revital-
ized research in this direction.
A typical phage consists of a protein hull (or capsid) and the en-
closed genetic material. For the majority of the known phages the
genetic material consists of double-stranded DNA, but phages with
single-stranded DNA and RNA genomes are also known. Some
phages also have a “tail” that serves for injecting the genetic ma-
terial into a bacterium. By their mode of reproduction, phage can be
roughly divided into lytic and non-lytic (or temperate) types. The
lytic phages are highly virulent type that start reproducing immedi-
ately after infecting a bacterium and after a short time lyse (destroy)
the host bacterium, releasing new free phages at the instance of bac-
terium death. The non-lytic, or temperate phages, are either integrat-
ing their genetic material into the chromosomal DNA of the host or
establishing themselves as plasmids, and then are copied with every
cell division together with the DNA of the host cell. When the host
cell starts to show signs of stress (meaning it might be about to die
soon), the endogenous phages become active again and start their
reproductive cycle, resulting in the lysis of the host cell.
In this paper we consider phages with the lytic reproduction cycle
only.
5
2. M ODEL
We use the Beretta-Kuang model of lytic marine bacteriophages
dynamics [3] as a basis for constructing a model of bacteriophage
evolution. The Beretta-Ruang model describes the dynamics of three
interacting populations, namely a population of susceptible target
bacteria, of size (or concentration) S(t), a population of bacteria in-
fected by the bacteriophages, of size (or concentration) I (t), and free
bacteriophage of size (or concentration) P(t). All three populations
are assumed to be homogeneous. The model postulate that the sus-
ceptible bacteria replicate according to the logistic law, with per capita
reproduction rate a and carrying capacity of the environment C. The
susceptible bacteria are infected by free bacteriophages at bilinear
rate kSP. Infected bacteria do not reproduce, die with per capita rate
<U+03BB>, releasing at the instance of death on average b phages. Free virus
die at per capita rate µ. Moreover, the model also take into account
that the free phage population decreases by those phages that infect
bacteria. Accordingly, the model equations are
 
dS S+I
= aS 1 - -kSP,
dt C
(1) dI
= kSP - <U+03BB>I,
dt
dP
= b<U+03BB>I - kSP - µP.
dt
An important for us feature of this model is that the model is based
upon a clearly identified set of assumptions and hypothesis (the first
principles); that is model (1) is mechanistic.
The phase space of the model is R3=0 . The model always has an
equilibrium state E0 = (0, 0, 0) at the origin and a phage-free equi-
librium state E f = (C, 0, 0). Apart from these two equilibrium states,
the model can have a positive equilibrium state E+ with coordinates
C aC R0 - 1 <U+03BB>R0
S+ = , I+ = , P+ = I+ ,
R0 <U+03BB>R0 + a R0 kC
where R0 = (b - 1)kC/µ is phages’ basic reproduction number.
The model dynamics is determined by the basic reproduction num-
ber R0 . In particular, if 0 < R0 = 1, then the phage-free equilibrium
state E f is globally asymptotically stable, and no positive equilibria
exist. At R0 = 1, equilibrium states E f and E+ merge, and a saddle-
node bifurcation occurs. Positive equilibrium state E+ exists for all
R0 > 1; E f is unstable (a saddle point) for these R0 .
As the basic reproduction number grows further, a supercritical
Hopf bifurcation occurs in the system: equilibrium state E+ loses its
stability, and a stable limit cycle appears in the phase space [3, 13].
6
This phenomenon is usually referred to as the paradox of enrichment
in ecology [19]. The possibility of the supercritical Hopf bifurcation
in the Beretta-Kuang model is the principal difference between this
model and simpler models, such as the Nowak-May model of HIV-1
dynamics that served as a basis for a model of viral evolution in [12,
10, 1, 2].
Model (1) postulates that all elements in each of the three popu-
lations are identical. In order to develop a model of bacteriophage
evolution, let us assume, instead, that a multitude of viral genotypes
exists and that several genotypes are simultaneously present in the
environment. Each genotype is characterized by a set of phenotypic
traits, which in this model framework is represented by parameters
k, <U+03BB>, µ and b.
It is reasonable to assume that the phenotypic traits of closely re-
lated genotypes are also close. To define distance between genotypes
A and B one can assume that the distance is inversely proportional
to the probability of mutation of genotype A to B (and vice versa) [5].
Please note that such a definition implies that the probability of mu-
tations A <U+2192> B and B <U+2192> A are equal. However, the equality does
not necessary hold in every case. Nevertheless, if the probability of
mutations A <U+2192> B and B <U+2192> A are not equal, then probabilities of
mutations in a predefined direction can be used to define the dis-
tance. Then to take into account the disparity in the probabilities of
mutations in opposite direction one can use an asymmetric mutation
operator.
The set of viral genotypes is discrete. However, due to pheno-
typical plasticity and stochasticity of the environment, values of pa-
rameters k, <U+03BB>, µ and b corresponding to a specific viral genotype vary
within certain tolerance intervals. Moreover, for closely related geno-
types these intervals are likely to overlap. Therefore, we can use a
continuous phenotype (or variant) space instead of a discrete geno-
type space. In the Beretta-Kuang model, a viral type is described
by four parameters k, <U+03BB>, µ and b, and hence a continuous phenotype
space should be of dimension up to 4.
A particular choice for a phenotype space, <U+2126>, is arbitrary and to a
large extend is a matter of convenience. As the simplest (and proba-
bly the most natural) choice, a 4-dim real space R4 = (-8, +8)4 can
be used as the phenotype space. In this paper, for convenience, we
assume that phenotype space is the positive 4-dimensional orthant
of the 4-dimensional real space, <U+2126> = R4+ = (0, +8)4 , and r <U+2208> <U+2126> is
the space coordinate.
For distributed viral variants, we define in the variant
R (phenotype)
space density distribution p(r, t), such that P(t) = <U+2126> p(r, t)dr holds.
We also have to segregate the infected bacteria with respect to a viral
variant that these are infected with, defining density distribution of
7
R
the infected bacterial population i (r, t). (Hence, I (t) = <U+2126> i (r, t)dr.)
Thus, we have a model with three variables: the susceptible popu-
lation S(t) (which is independent of viral phenotypes), the density
distribution of infected population i (r, t), and the density distribu-
tion of free phages population p(r, t).
In order to model random mutations, let us assume that with a
certain probability an infected bacterium can switch from producing
the genotype that is infected with to a different genotype. We assume
that the probability of such a mutation is small and is quickly (e.g.
exponentially) decreasing with the growth of the distance between
the original and mutant genotypes. In the continuous phenotype
space such random mutations can be modeled by an integral oper-
ator or by the dispersion (diffusion) operator [8, 12, 20, 21, 23]. An
integral operator provides more flexibility and potentially can de-
scribe more complicated features of real-life systems (such as asym-
metric mutations). However, the dispersion leads to a simple model,
is easier for analysis and is “cheaper” for numerical simulations. For
simplicity, in this paper we prefer to use the dispersion operator.
Under these assumptions, the continuous phenotype space model
of bacteriophage evolution is represented by the following system of
integro-partial differential equations:
(2)
<U+F8EB> <U+F8F6>
 
dS(t) 1
Z Z
= aS(t) <U+F8ED>1 - S(t) + i (r, t)dr <U+F8F8> - k(r ) p(r, t)S(t)dr,
dt C
<U+2126> <U+2126>
<U+2202>i (r, t)
= k(r ) p(r, t)S(t) - <U+03BB>(r )i (r, t) + q<U+2206>i (r, t),
<U+2202>t
<U+2202>p(r, t)
= -k(r ) p(r, t)S(t) - µ(r ) p(r, t) + b(r )<U+03BB>(r )i (r, t).
<U+2202>t
Here the coefficient of dispersion q is proportional to the probabil-
ity of mutation and is assumed to be variant-independent (constant)
and small.
The model should be completed by initial and boundary condi-
tions. For an unbounded phenotype space, it is natural to assume
that i (8, t) = p(8, t) = 0 hold everywhere at infinity. For a bounded
phenotype space, a Robin-type conditions
<U+2202>i (r, t) <U+2202>p(r, t)
q = i (r, t), q = p(r, t),
<U+2202>n <U+2202>n
<U+2202>i (r,t) <U+2202>p(r,t)
where <U+2202>n , <U+2202>n are the normal derivatives to the boundary, can
be applied.
Furthermore, functions r (r ), <U+03BB>(r ), µ(r ) and b(r ) (that is, the fitness
landscape) should be defined.
8
We have to stress that model (2) does not include any explicit law
of evolution, or a mechanism of evolution. Instead it includes only a
possibility of random mutations and a mechanism of natural selec-
tion (a possibility for conspecific competition for a limited resource).
We assume that, in agreement with the Darwinian principles, these
are sufficient to produce viral evolution.
It is also noteworthy that model (2) includes at least four time
scales, namely life-spans of the susceptible bacteria, the infected bac-
teria and free phages and the characteristic time of evolution. This
fact makes analysis of the model rather challenging.
3. R ESULTS
We mentioned above that in model (2) framework each viral vari-
ant is described by four parameters, namely k, <U+03BB>, µ and b. For the
sake of simplicity, let us assume that only one of these four param-
eters, say k = k (r ), is variable in phenotype space <U+2126>, whereas <U+03BB>, µ
and b are variant-independent and constants. This assumption al-
lows to reduce the dimension of phenotype space to one. Moreover,
for simplicity let us assume that k = <U+03BE>r. Then the variant-specific
reproduction number R0 (r ), which can serve as a measure of the
Darwinian fitness, is
(b(r ) - 1)Ck(r ) ( b - 1) C
R0 (r ) = = <U+03BE>r.
µ (r ) µ
That is, the Darwinian fitness linearly growth in the phenotype space
<U+2126>. In numerical simulations we use <U+03BE> = 0.002 ml/(cells·day). The
other parameters are as following: <U+03BB> = 3 days-1 , µ = 20 days-1 ,
b = 149.254, a = 1.5 days-1 and C = 100 cells/ml. (Please note that
variable r and parameter b are non-dimensional.) For these values
R0 ˜ 1.5 at r = 1. In simulations the coefficient of diffusion q, which
is proportional to the rate of mutation, is q = 10-6 days-1 .
In the simulations we assume that initially all bacteria are suscep-
tible. That is, S(0) = C, whereas the initial distribution of infected
bacteria is identically equal to zero. The initial distribution of free
virus differs from zero only in a narrow vicinity of r = 1. For the sim-
ulations, we use a finite interval r <U+2208> (0, rend ) of phenotype space <U+2126>,
rather than the entire semi-axis [0, +8), applying the Robin bound-
ary conditions
<U+2202>i <U+2202>p <U+2202>i <U+2202>p
q = i | r =0 , q = p|r=0 , q = i |r=rend , q = p|r=rend
<U+2202>r <U+2202>r <U+2202>r <U+2202>r
at the both ends.
Figure 1 shows distribution of infected bacteria in the viral vari-
ant space and time for the parameters above. In this Figure, colours
corresponds to the density i (r, t) at a particular point. Thus, black
9
colour corresponds to the zero level; see legend at the right-hand
side of the panel for detail. The formation of a pulse-type travelling
wave moving in the variant space towards higher Darwinian fitness
(towards higher R0 (r )) is clearly seen in this Figure. This result indi-
cates that for this particular fitness landscape bacteriophages’ Dar-
winian fitness (which is represented by the basic reproduction num-
ber R0 ) is increasing in time. That is, the simulations confirm that,
for an uneven fitness landscape, random mutations combined with
natural selection results to evolution towards increasing Darwinian
fitness. Figure 2 shows a typical profile of the travelling wave, that
is a typical distribution of infected bacteria i (r, t) by viral variants
they are infected with, at a particular time moment. (Fig. 2 depicts
the data for t = 1000 days.)
F IGURE 1. Density distribution of the infected popu-
lation i (r, t) by viral variant in time. Here q = 10-6
days-1 , a = 1.5 days-1 , C = 100 cells/ml, <U+03BB> = 3
days-1 , µ = 20 days-1 , b = 149.254, and <U+03BE> = 0.002
ml/cell·day. The colours correspond to the density
magnitude; see the legend on the right-hand side.
Please note the formation of a pulse-type travelling
wave moving in the phenotype space in the right-hand
direction. The speed of the wave varies in time de-
pending on the fitness of virus and size of the infected
population.
Figure 3 shows the dynamics of the susceptible population R S(t)
(the left-hand panel) and the total infected population I (t) = <U+2126> i (r, t)dr
(the right-hand panel). It is easy to see that, apart from a short ini-
tial transition period, the susceptible population is monotonically
10
Distribution of infected cells at t=1000
0.2
0.18
Concentration of bacteria
0.16
0.14
0.12
0.1
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
r
F IGURE 2. Distribution of the infected bacteria i (r, t)
by viral variants they are infected with at t = 1000
days.
decreasing. This outcome can be expected, as for the fitness land-
scape that we used the incidence rate k (r ) monotonically grows. The
dynamics of the total infected population is more intriguing. Here,
after a short transition period, there is an increase of the infected
population due to increase of the incidence rate k. However, after
reaching a certain level of r, the infected population (and hence the
free phage population) is steadily decreasing. This decrease can be
explained by the shortage of the resource (that is, by low abundance
of the uninfected bacteria in this particular case).
Dynamics of the susceptible population Dynamics of the total infected population
100 11
90 10
80
Concentration of cells Concentration of cells
9
70
8
60
7
50
6
40
5
30
20 4
10 3
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
Time Time
F IGURE 3. Dynamics of the susceptible population
S(t) (the left-hand
R panel) and the total infected pop-
ulation I (t) = <U+2126> i (r, t)dr (the right-hand panel).
It is noteworthy that the speed of the travelling wave in Fig. 1,
and hence the speed of evolution, is not constant. It can be seen in
Fig. 1 that initially evolution accelerates as the fitness grows. Then,
when a certain level of the Darwinian fitness is reached, the evolu-
tion abruptly slow down. (In Fig. 1 this slow-down occurs at t ˜ 500
11
days.) However, it can be seen that speed of evolution is not constant
after this moment either. This outcome qualitatively matches results
in [10, 12], where similar variations of the speed of evolution were
observed for the HIV within-host evolution models. In contrast, in
simulations with TLK model the speed remains constant after initial
transition period.
It can be conjected that the speed grows with the Darwinian fit-
ness and with population size. The deceleration of evolution seen
in Fig. 1 is likely caused by the reduction of the infected population
and by the lack of available resources (that is, the susceptible bacte-
ria), which are seen in Fig. 3.
As we mentioned above, the Beretta-Kuang model exhibits a su-
percritical Hopf bifurcation. That is, there is a critical value of the
basic reproduction number R0cr such that a supercritical Hopf bi-
furcation occurs at R0 = R0cr , and a stable limit cycle exists in the
model phase space for all R0 > R0cr . Figures 1–3 correspond to
R0 < R0cr . However, model (2) preserves this property of the orig-
inal Beretta-Kuang model: that is, at R0 = R0cr model (2) losses its
stability, and, as R0 grows further, self-sustained oscillations arise.
Figures 4 and 5 show the dynamics of the system for this case. In
these figures, <U+03B6> = 0.02 ml/cell·day, while all other parameters are
the same as in Figures 1–3. Fig. 4 shows the pulse-type travelling
wave in the virus variant space: while self-sustained oscillations of
the viral abundance are clearly seen in this figure, the wave propaga-
tion remains steady. The dynamics of the susceptible population for
model (2) and a typical distribution of the infected population in the
phenotype space i (r, t) are shown in Figure 5 (left-hand panel and
right-hand panel, respectively).
The simulations demonstrate that the self-sustained oscillations
do not affect propagation of the travelling wave and, hence, the prog-
ress of viral evolution. It may initially appear that Figures 1, 2,
4 and 5 show a slower evolution in the oscillating system. How-
ever, we have to remind that Figures 1 and 2, on one side, and Fig-
ures 4 and 5, on the other side, are produced for the fitness land-
scapes of different slopes. Specifically, Figures 1 and 2 depict data
for <U+03B6> = 0.002 ml/cell·day, whereas Figures 4 and 5 are for <U+03B6> =
0.02 ml/cell·day. That is, in Fig. 1 and 2, for 1000 days the mean
value of k (r ) = <U+03B6>r of the viral quasi-species changes from 0.002 to
0.0116 ml/cell·day (and hence the mean value of R0 changes from
1.48 to 8.288), whereas in Fig. 4, 5 for the same 1000 days the mean
k(r ) changes from 0.02 to 0.084 ml/cell·day (and hence the mean R0
changes from 14.8 to 62.16). That is, in fact changes of viral fitness in
Fig. 4, 5 occur faster. However, this acceleration of evolution is most
likely should be attributed to a higher fitness and to a considerably
larger slope of the fitness landscape.
12
F IGURE 4. Density distribution of the infected popu-
lation i (r, t) by viral phenotype in time. The colours
correspond to the density magnitude; see the legend
on the right-hand side. Please note the formation of a
pulse-type travelling wave moving in the phenotype
space in the right-hand direction. Here q = 10-6
days-1 , a = 1.5 days-1 , C = 100 cells/ml, <U+03BB> = 3
days-1 , µ = 20 days-1 , b = 149.254, and <U+03BE> = 0.02
ml/cell·day.
Dynamics of the susceptible population 10-67Distribution of infected cells at t=1000
100 1.4
90
1.2
Concentration of bacteria
80
Concentration of cells
70 1
60
0.8
50
0.6
40
30 0.4
20
0.2
10
0 0
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Time r
F IGURE 5. The dynamics of susceptible bacterial pop-
ulation S(t) (right-hand panel) and the density distri-
bution of infected population by viral phenotype i (r, t)
at t = 1000 days (left-hand picture) for R0 > R0cr .
Please note that as the basic reproduction number R0 (r ) grows due
to evolution, periods of the self-sustained oscillations grow as well.
(This can be expected, as the basic reproduction number R0 is the
bifurcation parameter for the Beretta-Kuang model (1), and the size
of the limit cycle in the model phase space, as well as the period,
13
grows as the bifurcation parameter grows.) Moreover, as the cycle
in the phase space of ODE model (1) grows, it is squeezed to the co-
ordinate planes. This implies that throughout a period, the infection
levels remain very low most of the time. This is accountable for the
very low magnitude of distribution i (r, t) seen in Fig. 5 and poten-
tially can lead to extinction of the virus of of both species.
4. C ONCLUSIONS
The aim of this paper was to construct a reasonably simple model
of viral evolution and to explore how particularities of a virus dy-
namics model, and in particular a host cells replication mode, af-
fect viral evolution. To address this question, in this paper we con-
structed a model of aquatic bacteriophage evolution. This model is
based on the Beretta-Kuang model of bacteriophage dynamics and
is mechanistic (based on the first principles), at least as far as the
Beretta-Kuang model is mechanistic. In contrast to the original Beretta-
Kuang model, the model in this paper postulates existence of a mul-
titude of viral variants with continuously distributed phenotypes
that are arranged in a continuous phenotype space. Random mu-
tations are modeled by the dispersion in the phenotype space.
The model constructed in this paper does not include any explicit
law, or a mechanism, of evolution. The authors expect, instead, that,
according to Darwin principles, random mutations combined with
natural selection and an uneven fitness landscape are sufficient ini-
tiate viral evolution. One of authors’ intentions was to compare this
model dynamics with that of the earlier considered model of within
host HIV evolution [1, 2, 12]. The latter model uses the same set
of assumption but is based upon the Nowak-May within-host HIV
model. The principal difference between these two models of viral
evolution is the target cells replication mode. While this difference
may appear insignificant, it leads to different dynamics, as the para-
dox of enrichment is possible in the Beretta-Kuang model.
Numerical simulations with the bacteriophages evolution model
exhibit the formation of a pulse-type travelling wave moving in the
phenotype space towards the increasing Darwinian fitness (increas-
ing R0 ). This confirm the expectation that on an uneven fitness land-
scape random mutations and natural selection (which in this model
is provided by the conspecific competition for a limited resource)
lead to the Darwinian evolution. It is noteworthy that the speed of
this wave (and hence the speed of evolution) is not constant, but de-
pends on the current viral fitness and the abundance of susceptible
cells. These results qualitatively coincide with results obtained in
[1, 2, 12] for HIV within-host evolution, where travelling waves of
evolution of varying speed were also observed.
14
The numerical simulations also exhibit the lost of stability and
the rise of self-sustained oscillations in the bacteriophage evolution
model (2), which corresponds to the paradox of enrichment in the
original Beretta-Kuang model and occurs when R0 exceeds a certain
critical value R0cr . The authors have to note, however, that, while for
R0 in the vicinity of R0cr the dynamics of model (2) closely resem-
bles a supercritical Hopf bifurcation, and corresponds to that in the
Beretta-Kuang model (1), the term “Hopf bifurcation” in its precise
meaning in not applicable to this case, as this model is not in an equi-
librium state. Furthermore, the numerical simulations show that the
only effect that the loss of stability and the following rise of the self-
sustained oscillations have on the viral evolution is a deceleration of
the evolution. No other effects, and in particular qualitative effects,
were observed. This observation is the most important outcome of
this study.
We also would like to stress that the simplistic fitness landscape
that was used in this paper is for illustration purpose only and is not
related to any real-life system. This simplest case, however, demon-
strates that the Darwinian fitness of virus should monotonically in-
crease on any uneven parts of more realistic fitness landscapes.
In this model, we completely disregard the possibility of co-evolu-
tion of the bacteria and pages and completely neglect bacterial evo-
lution. Apart from our intention to keep the model as simple as
possible, the major reason for this assumption is a considerable (of
orders of magnitude) difference in the characteristic time scales of
all processes (in particular reproduction and mutation rates) in the
interacting viral and bacterial populations. We have to note, how-
ever, that the co-evolution can be considered in the same modelling
framework: in order to do this, one has to assume existence of a
multitude of bacterial phenotypes (continuously distributed, for the
sake of consistency), define a model for the bacterial mutation mech-
anism (in the same way as it was done for the virus), define a bacte-
rial phenotype space, <U+2126>b , define a bacteria fitness landscape over this
space, modify viral fitness landscape postulating its dependence on
bacterial phenotype, and then consider the same process in <U+2126> × <U+2126>b .
While such a task is not impossible, it would require very large com-
putational power. Nevertheless, despite these difficulties and due
to these difficulties, modelling the co-evolution remains to be one of
the most exiting problems in evolutionary biology [4, 6, 7, 16]
Data Availability: No additional data are required or available.
Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing interests.
Authors’ Contributions: SP, who was AK’s MSc student when this
research were done, developed the software, run all simulations and
15
prepared the figures and diagrams; AK formulated the mathemati-
cal model, and analyzed and interpreted the results. Both authors
participated in writing the paper and gave final approval for publi-
cation.
Funding: AK is supported by the Spain’s Ministerio de Economía,
Industria y Competitividad grant MTM2015-71509-C2-1-R.
Research Ethics: This research were not required of completing an
ethical assessment.
Animal ethics: This research were not required to complete an eth-
ical assessment.
Permission to carry out fieldwork: This research were not required
a permission or a licence to conduct the fieldwork.
R EFERENCES
[1] A.A. Archibasov, A. Korobeinikov and V.A. Sobolev, Asymptotic expan-
sions of solutions for a singularly perturbed model of viral evolution. Com-
putational Mathematics and Mathematical Physics 55 (2), 240–250 (2015). doi:
10.1134/S0965542515020037
[2] A.A. Archibasov, A. Korobeinikov and V.A. Sobolev, Passage to the limits in a
singularly perturbed partial integro-differential system. Differential Equations
52 (9), 1115–1122 (2016). DOI: 10.1134/S0012266116090020
[3] E. Beretta and Y. Kuang, Modeling and analysis of a marine bacteriophage
infection, Math. Biosci. 149 (1998) 57–76.
[4] Bohannan B.J., Lenski R.E. Linking genetic change to community evolution:
insights from studies of bacteria and bacteriophage. Ecology letters 3(4), 362–
377 (2000).
[5] V. Calvez, A. Korobeinikov and P.K. Maini, Cluster formation for multi-strain
infections with cross-immunity, J. Theor. Biol., 233(1), 75–83 (2005).
[6] Domingo E., Sheldon J., Perales C. Viral quasispecies evolution. Microbiology
and Molecular Biology Reviews 76(2), 159–216 (2012).
[7] Duffy S., Shackelton L.A., Holmes E.C. Rates of evolutionary change in
viruses: patterns and determinants. Nature Reviews Genetics 9(4), 267–276
(2008).
[8] [10.1098/rstb.1997.0002] Y. Haraguchi and A. Sasaki, Evolutionary pattern of
intra-host pathogen antigenic drift: effect of crossreactivity in immune re-
sponse. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 352 (1997), 11–20.
[9] Mc Grath, S. and van Sinderen D. (editors). Bacteriophage: Genetics and
Molecular Biology (1st ed.). Caister Academic Press (2007). ISBN 978-1-
904455-14-1.
[10] A. Korobeinikov, A. Archibasov and V. Sobolev, Order reduction for a RNA
virus evolution model, Math. Biosci. Eng. 12 (5), 1007–1016 (2015).
[11] A. Korobeinikov, A. Archibasov, V. Sobolev, Multi-scale problem in the
model of RNA virus evolution, J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 727 (2016) 012007.
doi:10.1088/1742-6596/727/1/012007
http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1742-6596/727/1/012007
[12] A. Korobeinikov and C. Dempsey, A continuous phenotype space model od
RNA virus evolution within a host, Math. Biosci. Eng. 11, (2014), 919–927.
doi:10.3934/mbe.2015.12.1007
16
[13] A. Korobeinikov, E. Shchepakina and V. Sobolev, Paradox of enrichment and
system order reduction: bacteriophages dynamics as case study, Math. Med.
Biol. (Advance Access pub., 2015) doi:10.1093/imammb/dqv025
[14] (MR2068368) J. Lin, V. Andreasen, R. Casagrandi and S.A. Levin, Traveling
waves in a model of influenza A drift, J. Theor. Biol. 222 (2003), 437–445.
[15] Nowak, M.A., May, R.M. 2000. Virus Dynamics, Oxford University Press.
[16] Pal C., Macia M.D., Oliver A., Schachar I., Buckling A. Coevolution with
viruses drives the evolution of bacterial mutation rates. Nature 450(7172),
1079–1081. (2007). doi: 10.1038/nature06350
[17] Pease, C. M. 1987 An evolutionary epidemiological mechanism, with appli-
cations to type A influenza. Theor. Popul. Biol. 31, 422–452. (doi:10.1016/0040-
5809(87)90014-1)
[18] Prescott, L. (1993). Microbiology, Wm. C. Brown Publishers, ISBN 0-697-
01372-3
[19] Rosenzweig, M. (1971) The paradox of enrichment. Science, 171, 385–387.
[20] [10.1006/jtbi.1994.1110] A. Sasaki, Evolution of antigenic drift/switching:
continuously evading pathogens. J. Theor. Biol. 168 (1994), 291–308.
[21] A. Sasaki and Y. Haraguchi, Antigenic drift of viruses within a host: a finite
site model with demographic stochasticity. J. Mol. Evol. 51 (2000), 245–255.
[22] A. Sulakvelidze, Z. Alavidze and J.G. Morris, Bacteriophage Therapy, An-
timicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 45.3 (2001): 649–659. PMC.Web. 11
July 2016.
[23] [10.1103/PhysRevLett.76.4440] L.S. Tsimring, H. Levine and D.A. Kessler,
RNA virus evolution via a fitness-space model, Phys. Rev. Lett. 76 (1996),
4440–4443.
[24] Wommack, K.E. and Colwell, R.R. (2000). Virioplankton: Viruses in Aquatic
Ecosystems. Microbiology and Molecular Biology Reviews 64 (1): 69–114.
doi:10.1128/MMBR.64.1.69-114.2000. PMC 98987. PMID 10704475.
17
Society Open
