The growth threshold conjecture: a theoretical framework
for understanding T-cell tolerance
Clemente F. Arias, Miguel A. Herrero, José A. Cuesta, Francisco J. Acosta and Cristina
Fernández-Arias
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150016.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150016
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal before peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150016.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The immune system generates a random repertoire of T cells, in anticipation of a diverse array of
pathogens that the host is likely to encounter in its lifetime. Therefore a logic must operate to
ensure that these random specificities do not end up targeting the body’s own proteins and
triggering an autoimmune response. The current thinking is that this discrimination operates at
two levels – one during the development of the T cell, where strongly auto-reactive receptor-
bearing cells undergo apoptosis and the other in mature cells where stringent criteria are applied
to ensure that self-reactive T cells are not routinely activated. The precise mechanism of the latter
is still not clear. But the consensus in the literature is that the control on peripheral T cells is
exerted by a combination of mechanisms – including the requirement for additional (“co-
stimulatory”) signals from the presenting cells caused by inflammation, the activity of regulatory
T cells, the propensity of persistent antigen to induce tolerance etc. In this manuscript, the
authors describe a “new” mathematical model for immune activation and tolerance, which is
based on the rate of production of the antigen (as a consequence of the growth dynamics of the
antigen-expressing cell). The idea is intriguing and can add to the already existing debate in the
field along similar lines. However the authors should address several concerns, listed below
before the work can be published:
1. The title of the manuscript emphasizes that this is a “new” conjecture for T cell activation
and tolerance. However, while there are interesting ideas here, the basic premise of immune
activation or tolerance being tied to the rate of change of antigen levels has been previously
litigated extensively in the literature. The most popular version is from the work of Grossman
and Paul (e.g. see “rate of change sensitivity” in Grossman & Paul, PNAS 89(21): 10365-10369)
where they specifically proposed that the rate at which antigen levels change (or cells grow for
that matter) determines immune activation. This work has been cited in the context of actual
experimental data from T cell exhaustion to chronic viral infections, tolerance to self-antigen etc.
for the last 20+ years. Therefore, it is quite disappointing that the authors seem to be completely
unaware of such preceding and relevant literature in developing their model. A revised
manuscript should (a) discuss the previous literature and contrast their model from the existing
ones and (b) alter the title to remove the word “new”.
2. The authors discuss that the clonal contraction of T cells is not linked to pathogen
clearance – and therefore must be a property of the T cell itself. However, this claim is not
supported by data. In fact, even the data in the paper they cite (ref 10 in the manuscript) hints at
the opposite. For instance, the authors of that paper treated mice to stop pathogen growth (with
an antibiotic). Treated mice have much lower T cell numbers 5 days afterwards – consistent with
an early cessation of the response (and maybe even clonal contraction). A more cautious reading
of the literature and rewriting of the manuscript to accurately represent published literature is
warranted.
3. The model for effector and memory generation cited as the basis of their model for
memory T cell generation (asymmetric division of the naïve T cell into an effector and a memory
committed cell) remains a minority opinion which has not necessarily been supported by
subsequent studies. The more plausible models suggest that while all activated naïve T cells
become effectors, a small subset of these cells go on to become memory. While this reviewer does
not feel that this more accepted view does affect the actual mathematical model developed by the
authors significantly, it is for the authors to evaluate and verify that. One variable that might be
affected is the actual number they assign to the frequency of effector T cells before and after a
response (zero). It is not clear that this is correct – especially after a response, as many effector
phenotype cells persist for weeks before a complete transition to memory can be assumed (at
~60+ days). The model must therefore be tested with non-zero numbers for this variable, to make
it more consistent with existing data. If this does change the behavior of the model, a discussion
of that is also warranted.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I am sympathetic to the general position that self/nonself discrimination is an inadequate scheme
for deciphering immune regulation. In this regard, the paper advances the general appreciation
that an antigen is antigenic not by its own putative character but by the context in which it
appears. In this regard, Thomas Pradeu and colleagues have presented the newest version of an
idea originating with Jerne, that the "network" (which we can understand the immune system as
a system) is perturbed by antigen in either a spatial or temporal disruptive fashion. This paper
examines the temporal aspect, but does so without placing the model within the literature. This
is required in order to recognize how this paper supports or disputes related argument. Please
cite, as a minimum, the following studies (and others as well) to place this current model in its
own scientific context:
Pradeu, T., Jaeger, S. and Vivier, E. (2013) The speed of change: Towards a discontinuity theory of
immunity? Nature Reviews, Immunology 13:764–769 doi:10.1038/nri3521
Grignolio, A., Mishto, M., Caetano Faria, A.M., Garagnani, P., Franceschi, C., Tieri, P.
(2014) Towards a liquid self: how time, geography, and life experiences reshape
the biological identity, Frontiers in Immunology, doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2014.00153
Grossman, Z. (1993) Cellular tolerance as a dynamic state of the adaptable
lymphocyte, Immunological Reviews 133:45-73.
Grossman Z., and Paul, W. E. (1992) Adaptive cellular interactions in the immune
system: The tunable activation threshold and the significance of
subthreshold responses, Proceedings of the National Academy of Science
(U.S.A.) 89:10365-10369.
Matzinger, P. (1994) Tolerance, danger, and the extended family, Annual Review of
Immunology 12:991-1045.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150016)
13-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Arias,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("The growth threshold conjecture: a new framework
for understanding T cell tolerance") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-May-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
5
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150016)
See Appendices A and B.
label_version_2
RSOS-150016.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
6
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
My concerns regarding the original manuscript have been addressed adequately in the revised
version. I appreciate the effort - especially in placing this model in the context of previous work
that has highlighted the potential for lymphocytes to make immunity/tolerance decisions based
on quantitative parameters. The work of Grossman and Paul, which is quite relevant here, has
also part of a recent review : Grossman Z, Paul WE. 2015. Dynamic Tuning of Lymphocytes:
Physiological Basis, Mechanisms, and Function. Annu. Rev. Immunol. 2015. 33:677–713.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150016.R1)
22-May-2015
Dear Dr Arias:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150016.R1
entitled "The growth threshold conjecture: a theoretical framework for understanding T cell
tolerance" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
The reviewers do not require any further changes so please carefully proofread your manuscript
and also address the below editorial concerns.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository, this also applies to
computer code. Thank you for stating that your Mathematica code are available as
supplementary information. However you do not appear to have uploaded this. Please do upload
this as supplementary information and include details of this in a data availability section of your
manuscript at the end of the main text.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
7
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 31-May-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150016.R1)
Dear Ms. Aime,
Thank you for accepting our paper for publication in Open Science. We have included the last
modifications in the text, concerning Data Availability and Authors' contribution. I hope it will be
ok this time.
Best regards and thank you very much for your attention, Dr. Clemente F. Arias
Thanks for your report on our manuscript. Below, please find our comments (in blue)
on the points you raised (in black).
The immune system generates a random repertoire of T cells, in anticipation of a
diverse array of pathogens that the host is likely to encounter in its lifetime. Therefore a
logic must operate to ensure that these random specificities do not end up targeting the
body’s own proteins and triggering an autoimmune response. The current thinking is
that this discrimination operates at two levels – one during the development of the T
cell, where strongly auto-reactive receptor-bearing cells undergo apoptosis and the
other in mature cells where stringent criteria are applied to ensure that self-reactive T
cells are not routinely activated. The precise mechanism of the latter is still not clear.
But the consensus in the literature is that the control on peripheral T cells is exerted by
a combination of mechanisms – including the requirement for additional (“co-
stimulatory”) signals from the presenting cells caused by inflammation, the activity of
regulatory T cells, the propensity of persistent antigen to induce tolerance etc. In this
manuscript, the authors describe a “new” mathematical model for immune activation
and tolerance, which is based on the rate of production of the antigen (as a
consequence of the growth dynamics of the antigen-expressing cell). The idea is
intriguing and can add to the already existing debate in the field along similar lines.
The main goal of our article is to build a very simple mathematical model of effector T
cell population dynamics during an immune response. We focus on the interaction
between effector T cells and antigen- carrying cell populations, without explicitly
considering the effects of inflammation signals, innate immune cells or regulatory T
cells. The role of these factors (and others) in the T cell response is discussed in the
article under the perspective suggested by the model (figure 4B in the text).
Even if it is quite simple, the model succeeds in reproducing effector T cell behaviours
described in the literature (such as immunodominance) other than clonal expansion
and contraction. It does so by considering two basic features of clonal expansion and
contraction: inertia and elasticity. To the best of our knowledge the model proposed,
whereby effector T cell immune response is related to population inertia (by means of
second order differential equations) has not been presented before, and it is in this
context that the term “new” was used.
By using second order differential equations, an interesting dynamics emerges that
suggests that tolerance by effector T cells is possible, even if self-reactive T cells are
activated. We call this phenomenon tolerance by early contraction, and suggest that
this may be a mechanism (one among others) used by the immune system to
discriminate target cells by their growth rate. We call this assumption the growth
threshold conjecture.
However the authors should address several concerns, listed below before the work
can be published:
1. The title of the manuscript emphasizes that this is a “new” conjecture for T cell
activation and tolerance. However, while there are interesting ideas here, the basic
premise of immune activation or tolerance being tied to the rate of change of antigen
levels has been previously litigated extensively in the literature. The most popular
version is from the work of Grossman and Paul (e.g. see “rate of change sensitivity” in
Grossman & Paul, PNAS 89(21): 10365-10369) where they specifically proposed that
the rate at which antigen levels change (or cells grow for that matter) determines
immune activation. This work has been cited in the context of actual experimental data
from T cell exhaustion to chronic viral infections, tolerance to self-antigen etc. for the
completely unaware of such preceding and relevant literature in developing their
model. A revised manuscript should (a) discuss the previous literature and contrast
their model from the existing ones and (b) alter the title to remove the word “new”.
Again, to the best of our knowledge, the idea that tolerance can emerge after T cell
activation as a consequence of effector T cells population dynamics (without the
participation of regulatory T cells, innate immune cells or any other element) is new.
However, after reading the referee‘s remarks, we acknowledge that the term “new”
might be a bit misleading, in particular in the absence of appropriate quotation to
relevant previous references as that mentioned above. We apologize for having
overlooked it.
To remedy this situation, in this revised version we have deleted the term “new” from
the title, and have introduced a section at the end of the article to discuss in more detail
the differences between our proposal and other mechanisms of immune tolerance that
have been described in the literature.
2. The authors discuss that the clonal contraction of T cells is not linked to pathogen
clearance – and therefore must be a property of the T cell itself. However, this claim is
not supported by data. In fact, even the data in the paper they cite (ref 10 in the
manuscript) hints at the opposite. For instance, the authors of that paper treated mice
to stop pathogen growth (with an antibiotic). Treated mice have much lower T cell
numbers 5 days afterwards – consistent with an early cessation of the response (and
maybe even clonal contraction). A more cautious reading of the literature and rewriting
of the manuscript to accurately represent published literature is warranted.
In this work, we do not discuss the link between clonal contraction and pathogen
clearance. We cite reference [10] as an evidence of the delay in the onset of clonal
contraction relative to pathogen clearance i.e., the existence of inertia in effector T cell
response. Even in mice treated with antibiotics to stop pathogen growth, clonal
expansion continues for a few days (although to a lesser extent) after the clearance of
the infection, as can be deduced from the following excerpt taken from reference 10:
“Antibiotic treatment of high dose-infected mice had a substantial impact on the
recovery of L. monocytogenes from the spleen and liver, reducing bacterial numbers at
day 2 by more that 99.8% and mediating clearance of the infection by day 3 compared
to day 7 in high dose-infected mice that did not receive antibiotics (Fig. 3a,b). […] As
has been noted previously after infection with virulent L. monocytogenes, antibiotic
treatment at 24 h after infection did not prevent vigorous CD8+ T cell expansion
in response to the LLO(91-99) epitope, but did reduce the magnitude of expansion
both on days 5 and 7.”
The effect of antibiotics here described can be simulated by equations [1] (see
accompanying figure).
antibiotics (B and C) has an impact in the magnitude of clonal expansion and leads to
an earlier cessation of the T cell response, as compared to the response in the
absence of antibiotics (A).
3. The model for effector and memory generation cited as the basis of their model for
memory T cell generation (asymmetric division of the naïve T cell into an effector and a
memory committed cell) remains a minority opinion, which has not necessarily been
supported by subsequent studies. The more plausible models suggest that while all
activated naïve T cells become effectors, a small subset of these cells go on to
become memory. While this reviewer does not feel that this more accepted view does
affect the actual mathematical model developed by the authors significantly, it is for the
authors to evaluate and verify that.
As a matter of fact, the assumption of naïve T cell asymmetric division is not necessary
for the model, so we have decided to remove it from the text. The model intends to
describe the macroscopic dynamics of effector T cells and antigen-carrying cells,
without considering the microscopic, cellular-scale processes underlying those
dynamics. Clonal contraction consists in the disappearance of activated T cells with an
effector phenotype and the particular mechanisms involved (apoptosis, transition to a
memory phenotype, or both) are irrelevant for the model. Since it is a
phenomenological model, it does not support or discard any explanation of the origin of
memory T cells after episode of clonal expansion and contraction.
One variable that might be affected is the actual number they assign to the frequency
of effector T cells before and after a response (zero). It is not clear that this is correct –
especially after a response, as many effector phenotype cells persist for weeks before
a complete transition to memory can be assumed (at ~60+ days). The model must
therefore be tested with non-zero numbers for this variable, to make it more consistent
with existing data. If this does change the behaviour of the model, a discussion of that
is also warranted.
We have considered that the end of clonal contraction is determined by the
disappearance of activated T cell with an effector phenotype. Even if this
disappearance is delayed relative to the end of the infection, all effector T cells are
eventually removed. For this reason, we have chosen the value zero for the population
of effector T cells after the response.
The existence of elasticity and inertia in this population has led us to use second order
differential equations. For the sake of simplicity, we have assumed that only two
opposite forces act on effector T cells: an antigenic force and a recovery, elastic force.
However, by adding an additional term of friction to equations [1], a somewhat “more
realistic” behaviour can be obtained for effector T cells (see accompanying figure).
 
T ''(t) = -kT (t) - c T’(t) + <U+03BB>P (t), P '(t) = aP (t) - ßT (t)P (t)
However, the inclusion of a friction force would entail the use of an additional
parameter c, which complicates the analysis of the model. On the other hand, this term
does not change the qualitative behaviour of the model and the main conclusions
discussed in the text. For this reason we have chosen to present our inertial model in
its most simple version.
Thanks for your report on our manuscript. Below, please find our comments (in blue)
on the points you raised (in black).
I am sympathetic to the general position that self/non-self discrimination is an
inadequate scheme for deciphering immune regulation. In this regard, the paper
advances the general appreciation that an antigen is antigenic not by its own putative
character but by the context in which it appears. In this regard, Thomas Pradeu and
colleagues have presented the newest version of an idea originating with Jerne, that
the "network" (which we can understand the immune system as a system) is perturbed
by antigen in either a spatial or temporal disruptive fashion. This paper examines the
temporal aspect, but does so without placing the model within the literature. This is
required in order to recognize how this paper supports or disputes related argument.
Please cite, as a minimum, the following studies (and others as well) to place this
current model in its own scientific context:
- Pradeu, T., Jaeger, S. and Vivier, E. (2013) The speed of change: Towards a
discontinuity theory of immunity? Nature Reviews, Immunology 13:764–769
doi:10.1038/nri3521
- Grignolio, A., Mishto, M., Caetano Faria, A.M., Garagnani, P., Franceschi, C., Tieri, P.
(2014) Towards a liquid self: how time, geography, and life experiences reshape the
biological identity, Frontiers in Immunology, doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2014.00153
- Grossman, Z. (1993) Cellular tolerance as a dynamic state of the adaptable
lymphocyte, Immunological Reviews 133:45-73.
- Grossman Z., and Paul, W. E. (1992) Adaptive cellular interactions in the immune
system: The tunable activation threshold and the significance of sub-threshold
responses, Proceedings of the National Academy of Science (U.S.A.) 89:10365-10369.
- Matzinger, P. (1994) Tolerance, danger, and the extended family, Annual Review of
Immunology 12:991-1045.
After reading the referee‘s remarks, we acknowledge that an appropriate discussion
about the specific contribution of this work in the field of immune tolerance was missing
in the original article. For this reason, in this revised version we have introduced a new
section to comment in more detail the differences between our proposal and other
mechanisms of immune tolerance that have been described in the literature. Moreover,
the references quoted above by the referee have also been added.
Society Open
