Pulse of inflammatory proteins in the pregnant uterus of
European polecats (Mustela putorius) leading to the time of
implantation
Heli Lindeberg, Richard J. S. Burchmore and Malcolm W. Kennedy
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161085.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161085
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 January 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 February 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-161085.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jane Fenelon)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper examined the expression profile of uterine secretory proteins in the polecat from early
in pregnancy to just before implantation. There is only a limited number of these studies in non-
domestic mammals so the results provide an important, novel comparison. A number of proteins
were detected that could have important roles during pregnancy. Of particular interest is the
novel detection of lipocalin 1. Unfortunately the expression of these proteins was not examined
further so it is difficult to say what function they could be having. It is understandable that
limited tissue is available for an exotic species but presumably the expression of these proteins
could have been examined in the uteri that were flushed?
Specific comments
How many animals were collected for each stage? Please include in the methods.
Why wasn't another animal collected at d4 and d14 if they weren't pregnant? Particularly since
they are of interest being the earliest pregnancy stage examined and the one post-implantation
stage respectively.
The standardization of protein concentration to serum albumin needs to be re-examined. There
appears to be widely differing concentrations of protein even between replicates of the same
stage in the original gel (Suppl Fig 1). How were the replicates combined for the comparison of
protein concentrations between stages?
Whilst it is feasible that these proteins could be present in a diapause mustelid species, this is
hypothetical and since the biological function of these proteins is not known in the polecat, it's
impossible to say whether they would have a role in diapause. Thus the mention of diapause
should be included only in the discussion and removed from the abstract.
Dr. Jane Fenelon
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute,
Department of Cellular & Molecular Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine
University of Ottawa
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161085)
13-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Kennedy
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-161085 entitled
"Pulse of inflammatory proteins in the pregnant uterus of European polecats (Mustela putorius)
leading to the time of implantation" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
3
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161085
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
4
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 22-Feb-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
This manuscript describes a study of proteins present in the uterus of pregnant pole cats (Mustela
putorius). In this species the embryos do not implant until 12 days after mating. The fluids were
sampled on consecutive days and subjected to gel electrophoresis followed by Mass
spectrometry. Two proteins stood out in their dramatic change in abundance in the uterine fluid,
a proteinase inhibitor, and lipocalin which may be involved in both immune functions and in
lipid regulation. The authors present possible reasons for the upregulation of these proteins, and
they also compare their results to similar studies done in other vertebrates.
Overall the manuscript conveys interesting data that was carefully collected. The fact that for
some of the days only one animal was available, might introduce some variation, but since the
data are clear with respect to the two proteins that are focused on, and given that the authors are
not over-interpreting the data, this is not a major concern. Nevertheless, the questions raised by
reviewer 1 with respect to variation in sampling and reproducibility should be briefly addressed
in the discussion section, before the manuscript can be accepted.
Minor comment: It is a bit cumbersome for the reader to have to go between the table and the gel
pictures to find the proteins listed in the table and understand easily on which day those proteins
were upregulated. It would be helpful if in the legends to the Gels, the authors would list the
identity of the proteins that are the most upregulated (i.e. add to the legend something like: Note
that alpha2-macroglobulin is notably upregulated in days x and y, labeled A and B.. Lipocalin is
upregulated in days xxx , labeled G and U). This would make it much easier for the reader to
appreciate the Figure -and the results - immediately.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper examined the expression profile of uterine secretory proteins in the polecat from early
in pregnancy to just before implantation. There is only a limited number of these studies in non-
domestic mammals so the results provide an important, novel comparison. A number of proteins
were detected that could have important roles during pregnancy. Of particular interest is the
novel detection of lipocalin 1. Unfortunately the expression of these proteins was not examined
further so it is difficult to say what function they could be having. It is understandable that
limited tissue is available for an exotic species but presumably the expression of these proteins
could have been examined in the uteri that were flushed?
Specific comments
How many animals were collected for each stage? Please include in the methods.
Why wasn't another animal collected at d4 and d14 if they weren't pregnant? Particularly since
they are of interest being the earliest pregnancy stage examined and the one post-implantation
stage respectively.
The standardization of protein concentration to serum albumin needs to be re-examined. There
appears to be widely differing concentrations of protein even between replicates of the same
stage in the original gel (Suppl Fig 1). How were the replicates combined for the comparison of
protein concentrations between stages?
6
Whilst it is feasible that these proteins could be present in a diapause mustelid species, this is
hypothetical and since the biological function of these proteins is not known in the polecat, it's
impossible to say whether they would have a role in diapause. Thus the mention of diapause
should be included only in the discussion and removed from the abstract.
Dr. Jane Fenelon
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute,
Department of Cellular & Molecular Medicine,
Faculty of Medicine
University of Ottawa
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161085)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161085.R1)
22-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Kennedy,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Pulse of inflammatory proteins in the
pregnant uterus of European polecats (Mustela putorius) leading to the time of implantation" is
now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
7
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
The authors have been very diligent in addressing the questions and criticisms raised by the
reviewers of the original manuscript. In particular, it is good to see that the numbers of animals
are now clearly listed in the Materials and Methods, and in general, the revisions to the Materials
and Methods have made the experiments easier to follow and interpret. It is also helpful that the
authors now have indicated in Figure S1 which samples were chosen for proteomics, have
adjusted Figure legends to allow easier cross referencing between experiments for the reader, and
the changes in the abstract regarding diapause are also in accordance with the main reviewer's
request.
Overall the revisions have improved the manuscript in clarity and substance, and answered all
the points raised by the reviewers. For this reason, the manuscript is now ready for publication.
Manuscript RSOS-161085
Title - Pulse of inflammatory proteins in the pregnant uterus of European polecats (Mustela putorius)
leading to the time of implantation
17th February 2017
Authors’ responses to comments and suggestions
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Overall the manuscript conveys interesting data that was carefully collected. The fact that for some of
the days only one animal was available, might introduce some variation, but since the data are clear
with respect to the two proteins that are focused on, and given that the authors are not over-
interpreting the data, this is not a major concern. Nevertheless, the questions raised by reviewer 1 with
respect to variation in sampling and reproducibility should be briefly addressed in the discussion section,
before the manuscript can be accepted.
- Please see below.
Minor comment: It is a bit cumbersome for the reader to have to go between the table and the gel
pictures to find the proteins listed in the table and understand easily on which day those proteins were
upregulated. It would be helpful if in the legends to the Gels, the authors would list the identity of the
proteins that are the most upregulated (i.e. add to the legend something like: Note that alpha2-
macroglobulin is notably upregulated in days x and y, labeled A and B.. Lipocalin is upregulated in days
xxx , labeled G and U). This would make it much easier for the reader to appreciate the Figure -and the
results - immediately.
- Good suggestion. The legend to Figure 1 (and also Figure 2) has been added to accordingly.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper examined the expression profile of uterine secretory proteins in the polecat from early in
pregnancy to just before implantation. There is only a limited number of these studies in non-domestic
mammals so the results provide an important, novel comparison. A number of proteins were detected
that could have important roles during pregnancy. Of particular interest is the novel detection of lipocalin
1. Unfortunately the expression of these proteins was not examined further so it is difficult to say what
function they could be having. It is understandable that limited tissue is available for an exotic species
but presumably the expression of these proteins could have been examined in the uteri that were
flushed?
- Yes, one could indeed examine gene transcription and protein synthesis but suitably prepared uterine
tissue samples were not available to us. This would, however, clearly be the next step.
Specific comments
How many animals were collected for each stage? Please include in the methods.
- We have now included the number of animals used in the Materials and Methods. The gel in the
supplementary figure shows the protein profiles from all the animals sampled, and we have amended
Figure S1 and its legend to make clear which samples of these were selected for the subsequent
investigation. We have added two short sentences to section 2.1 of the Materials and Methods to explain
this and to direct attention to Figure S1.
Why wasn't another animal collected at d4 and d14 if they weren't pregnant? Particularly since they are
of interest being the earliest pregnancy stage examined and the one post-implantation stage
respectively.
- Agreed. That would have been ideal. But, as above, we were exploiting as far as we could the material
they provided useful (if accidental) comparative controls. We have made this clearer in the Materials and
Methods.
The standardization of protein concentration to serum albumin needs to be re-examined. There appears
to be widely differing concentrations of protein even between replicates of the same stage in the original
gel (Suppl Fig 1). How were the replicates combined for the comparison of protein concentrations
between stages?
- The variation between the samples could be due to individuality between the animals themselves in
terms of when and how much they change their secretions, and differences in total uterine tissue
masses , but also to the efficiency of the flushing procedure. Hence our attempt to impose a degree of
equilibration by modifying the quantities of samples loaded onto the gel in Figure 1 using serum albumin
as a notional standard. While we cannot at this stage know with any certainty that the secretion of
serum albumin is a constant (a similar problem is presented to workers looking for a standard in gene
transcription studies), it does provide a reasonable approximation. So long as what we did is clear, then
subsequent investigations can accommodate if necessary. Because of the complexity of the differences
between samples taken on the same day we did not pool samples but instead chose samples from
individual animals. Those that were selected for Figure 1 and Figure 2 and the proteomics are now
indicated in Figure S1.
Whilst it is feasible that these proteins could be present in a diapause mustelid species, this is
hypothetical and since the biological function of these proteins is not known in the polecat, it's
impossible to say whether they would have a role in diapause. Thus the mention of diapause should be
included only in the discussion and removed from the abstract.
- Yes, agreed. The potential role of these proteins in embryonic diapause in mustelids is intriguing but is
indeed hypothetical. Mention of this has now been removed from the Abstract but left in the Discussion.
We have, however, added an additional clause to the end of the Abstract to round it off better.
In addition to these changes, we have made a few minor changes to the legend of Figure S1 to improve
clarity.
Society Open
