Hydrodynamic performance of suction feeding is virtually
unaffected by variation in the shape of the posterior region
of the pharynx in fish
Pauline Provini and Sam Van Wassenbergh
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 181249.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.181249
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 July 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Final acceptance: 17 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-181249)
17-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Provini,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Hydrodynamic performance of suction
feeding is virtually unaffected by variation in the shape of the posterior region of the pharynx in
fish" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
The Subject Editor has reviewed your manuscript and associated responses to an earlier round of
peer review prior to transferring to Royal Society Open Science, and I am pleased to report they
consider your responses and incorporated changes to be sufficient to allow the journal to accept
the paper -- congratulations!
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Pietro Cicuta (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
