Phoretic interactions and oscillations in active suspensions
of growing Escherichia coli
Remigijus Šimkus, Rita Meškiene, Agota Aucynaite, Žilvinas Ledas, Romas Baronas and
Rolandas Meškys
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180008.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180008
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180008.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attached file (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The present manuscript reports on bioluminescence imaging experiments in growing colonies of
E.coli bacteria under confinement.
As a key result, the authors have observed the formation of oscillating aggregates (patterns)
which they analyze in detail. In particular, the authors have repeated their experiment with
various mutants and have also performed some mathematical modeling based on the Keller-Segel
equations.
As far as I can see, the results are correct, the conclusions are justified and the manuscript fullfills
the criteria for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Some comments:
- I generally enjoyed reading this manuscript and found the result quite interesting that all
considered mutants form very similar aggregates, i.e. that structure formation in the present
setup is neither based on chemosensory nor on chemotactic signal transduction systems.
- It would be helpful if the authors could relate their experiments and findings better to previous
3
experiments on pattern formation in growing colonies of E.coli bacteria; for example with the
classical experiments by E. Budrene and H. Berg in Nature 349,630 1991 and 376, 49 1995.
- The structure of the manuscript could be somewhat clearer. It is often difficult to see what the
authors are aiming at and only becomes clear in a later paragraph. For example, it would be
helpful if the authors could make it clear from the beginning on, at what they are aiming with the
mathematical model.
As of now, on pages 4 and 5 there is a discussion that bacterial chemotaxis is probably
unimportant for the formation of the observed patterns, which is then directly followed by the
Keller-Segel equation which are normally used to model pattern formation in microorganisms
like Dictyostelium which do sense chemicals.
(That said, content-wise the approach of the authors seems quite sensible to me, since very
similar equations can also be derived for colloids (e.g. in some of the references cited in the
manuscript), but that should be explained more clearly I think.)
- The connection between the present experimental findings and colloidal chemotaxis is
conceptually quite interesting and perhaps the most original part of the present manuscript.
However, I think that it is not clear enough in the manuscript what is meant by 'colloidal
chemotaxis'. In particular, chemotaxis in Janus colloids can refer either to the directed diffusion of
a particle in a chemical concentration gradient, or, to the alignment of these particles with the
gradient.
Perhaps it would help if the authors could introduce both terms, bacterial chemotaxis (based on
the sensation of chemicals) and "colloidal chemotaxis", in their introduction.
- In the introduction: The statement "As bacteria are colloids [1]..may be driven by phoretic but
not flagellar mechanisms" is somewhat confusing. Do the authors mean that bacteria may
experience chemotactic drift effects which move them in addition to their motion by active
swimming?
- The style of the formulas is rather heterogeneous.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180008.R0)
19-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Simkus,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Phoretic interactions and oscillations in active suspensions
of growing Escherichia coli") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Mar-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180008
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
5
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Oliver Jensen (Associate Editor) and Pietro Cicuta (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Oliver Jensen):
Please revise the paper, addressing carefully all the points raised by the referees. Please ensure in
particular that any claims made in the abstract are fully supported by evidence in the paper.
One minor point: the second sentence of Section 4 appears to have an unintended double
negative (remove "not").
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see attached file
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The present manuscript reports on bioluminescence imaging experiments in growing colonies of
E.coli bacteria under confinement.
As a key result, the authors have observed the formation of oscillating aggregates (patterns)
which they analyze in detail. In particular, the authors have repeated their experiment with
various mutants and have also performed some mathematical modeling based on the Keller-Segel
equations.
As far as I can see, the results are correct, the conclusions are justified and the manuscript fullfills
the criteria for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Some comments:
- I generally enjoyed reading this manuscript and found the result quite interesting that all
considered mutants form very similar aggregates, i.e. that structure formation in the present
setup is neither based on chemosensory nor on chemotactic signal transduction systems.
- It would be helpful if the authors could relate their experiments and findings better to previous
experiments on pattern formation in growing colonies of E.coli bacteria; for example with the
classical experiments by E. Budrene and H. Berg in Nature 349,630 1991 and 376, 49 1995.
- The structure of the manuscript could be somewhat clearer. It is often difficult to see what the
authors are aiming at and only becomes clear in a later paragraph. For example, it would be
helpful if the authors could make it clear from the beginning on, at what they are aiming with the
mathematical model.
As of now, on pages 4 and 5 there is a discussion that bacterial chemotaxis is probably
unimportant for the formation of the observed patterns, which is then directly followed by the
Keller-Segel equation which are normally used to model pattern formation in microorganisms
like Dictyostelium which do sense chemicals.
(That said, content-wise the approach of the authors seems quite sensible to me, since very
similar equations can also be derived for colloids (e.g. in some of the references cited in the
manuscript), but that should be explained more clearly I think.)
- The connection between the present experimental findings and colloidal chemotaxis is
conceptually quite interesting and perhaps the most original part of the present manuscript.
However, I think that it is not clear enough in the manuscript what is meant by 'colloidal
chemotaxis'. In particular, chemotaxis in Janus colloids can refer either to the directed diffusion of
a particle in a chemical concentration gradient, or, to the alignment of these particles with the
gradient. Perhaps it would help if the authors could introduce both terms, bacterial chemotaxis
(based on the sensation of chemicals) and "colloidal chemotaxis", in their introduction.
- In the introduction: The statement "As bacteria are colloids [1]..may be driven by phoretic but
not flagellar mechanisms" is somewhat confusing. Do the authors mean that bacteria may
experience chemotactic drift effects which move them in addition to their motion by active
swimming?
- The style of the formulas is rather heterogeneous.
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180008.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-180008.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
My previous comments have all been fully addressed.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
8
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The authors have satisfactorily implemented all of my previous comments.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180008.R1)
13-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Simkus,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Phoretic interactions and oscillations in
active suspensions of growing Escherichia coli" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
9
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Oliver Jensen (Associate Editor) and Pietro Cicuta (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
The authors have satisfactorily implemented all of my previous comments.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
My previous comments have all been fully addressed.
Appendix A
Experiments are presented which characterize the spatiotemporal patterns of active suspensions of
E. coli, and the results are considered in the context of a classical mathematical model for
chemotaxis. Various mutant bacteria are considered, with individual genes knocked out associated
with respiration, ion channels, surface appendages, and chemotaxis. There is no systematic
relationship between the patterns observed and the non-chemotactic mutants. However patterns
are slightly supressed (reduced number of aggregations) in suspensions of mutants with certain
genes associated with proton translocation knocked out, and patterns are slightly enhanced when
genes associated with surface appendages are knocked out. A standard linear stability analysis is
performed on a standard chemotaxis model (e.g. as discussed in Murray’s Mathematical Biology
textbook). A comparison is then made between the predictions from the linear stability analysis for
the average number of aggregations and the results from a numerical simulation of the full model
for a range of parameter values (growth rate, chemotactic sensitivity, production & degradation of
the chemoattractant). Up to this point, the paper appears reasonably sound. However the attempts
in section 3.4 to connect the experiments with the model are very weak and the latter half of the
abstract (‘An analysis of the experimental data together with mathematical modelling of pattern
formation suggest the following …’) seems to be wild speculation rather than representative of any
concrete results. I therefore recommend that this paper may be suitable for publication but only
after substantial revision.
Some specific comments/suggestions:
In the experimental conditions considered, have you checked whether the wild-type E coli is actually
motile and whether it does undergo chemotaxis? It would be good to demonstrate that the mutants
do have some of the phenotypic changes associated with the genotype mutation.
Some of the standard linear stability analysis could be moved to an appendix to better elucidate the
key new results presented here.
When comparing the model to the experiments, how does experimental values (e.g. for bacteria
growth rate, either measured independently by the authors or obtained from the literature)
compare with the dimensionless parameters considered in the model. You will need to be more
explicit regarding how the system is non-dimensionalised.
There should be a fuller explanation of how the chemotactic model can be interpreted for a
‘phoretic field’.
Appendix B
Answers to the reviewers
First of all, we thank the reviewers for their useful and in-depth comments on the paper. We believe
that the implemented changes have improved the quality of the paper. Below we give answers to the
reviewers and then provide a list of changes in the paper.
Referee: 1
Up to this point, the paper appears reasonably sound. However the attempts in section 3.4 to connect
the experiments with the model are very weak and the latter half of the abstract (‘An analysis of the
experimental data together with mathematical modelling of pattern formation suggest the following …’)
seems to be wild speculation rather than representative of any concrete results. I therefore recommend
that this paper may be suitable for publication but only after substantial revision.
Answer 1:
We have revised the paper according to the suggestions of the referees. Section 3.4 was substantially
rewritten and divided into three shorter sub-sections in order to emphasize the role of biochemical
oscillators and phoretic interactions in the formation of spatiotemporal patterns. Some of our
suggestions regarding hypothetical processes were omitted. In particular, we omitted the (insufficiently
substantiated) claims about chemo-mechanical oscillators, and the interactions between Min and
oxidative phosphorylation systems of E. coli. We believe that the paper still provides a strong
contribution, despite these omissions.
The latter half of the abstract was corrected:
…An analysis of the experimental data together with mathematical modelling of pattern formation
suggest the following: 1) pattern-forming processes can be described by Keller-Segel-type models of
chemotaxis with logistic cell kinetics; 2) active cells can be seen as biochemical oscillators that exhibit
phoretic drift and alignment; 3) the spatiotemporal patterns in a suspension of growing E. coli form
due to phoretic interactions between oscillating cells of high metabolic activity.
One keyword was changed (‘biochemical oscillations’ substituted of ‘Min oscillations’).
The above modifications were implemented in corrections 1, 2, and 14–22
In the experimental conditions considered, have you checked whether the wild-type E coli is actually
motile and whether it does undergo chemotaxis? It would be good to demonstrate that the mutants do
have some of the phenotypic changes associated with the genotype mutation
Answer 2:
Our microscopic observations indicate that E. coli cells in a drop of the culture just diffuse or swim
slowly (<<20 <U+F06D>m/s). This is consistent with the results of the study by Schwarz-Linek et al. [2016
Escherichia coli as a model active colloid: A practical introduction. Colloid Surf. B-Biointerfaces 137, 2–
16]. These authors pointed out that in the growth medium “only few, if any, of the cells were
swimming”. They also show that the fraction of non-swimmers in specially prepared suspensions of
motile cells is very substantial. (Moreover, the results are dependent on methods, e. g. pipetting
procedure). Unfortunately, the statistical distribution of cells according to their activity in the grow
cultures is still an open problem. In the revised paper we note the complexity of transport of E. coli in
liquid suspensions by citing Schwarz-Linek et al. (correction 5). We agree that the problem raised by
the reviewer is important, yet we believe this should be addressed in future studies that focus
specifically on the distribution of cells according to their activity.
Some of the standard linear stability analysis could be moved to an appendix to better elucidate the
key new results presented here
1
Answer 3:
The standard linear stability analysis was moved to the Appendix A (corrections 11 and 23).
When comparing the model to the experiments, how does experimental values (e.g. for bacteria
growth rate, either measured independently by the authors or obtained from the literature) compare
with the dimensionless parameters considered in the model. You will need to be more explicit
regarding how the system is non-dimensionalised.
Answer 4:
The sub-section “Pattern forming parameters” was added to the text. The values of the dimensionless
parameters of the model were determined experimentally by changing input parameters and aiming to
achieve an irregular wave pattern comparable to the one observed experimentally. Taking into account
the transformation of variables, the dimensional parameters were determined.
The values of the dimensional parameters (diffusion coefficients, grow rates) were compared with
those obtained by other authors (3 additional papers were cited). It was found that the grow rate of
active cell in our model is very high. This is explained by temporal changes of cell activity (biochemical
oscillations of cells).
The above modifications were implemented in corrections 11, 12, 18, 22 and 24.
There should be a fuller explanation of how the chemotactic model can be interpreted for a ‘phoretic
field’.
Answer 5:
We have provided a fuller explanation (using corrections 4, 10, 16 and 25). In particular, we explain
the chemotactic motion of a phoretic particle as its phoretic drift and alignment due to coupling with
the ‘phoretic field’ that is generated by all other colloids. We consider that a phoretic field is an
effective chemical field whose gradient induces phoretic migration of cells. The Keller-Segel equations
can be used to model pattern formation in bacterial populations. However, similar equations can also
be derived for chemotactic colloids. In our study the mathematical modelling of pattern-forming
processes is provided, keeping in mind that active cells may behave as chemotactic colloids that couple
with the ‘phoretic field’.
Referee: 2
It would be helpful if the authors could relate their experiments and findings better to previous
experiments on pattern formation in growing colonies of E.coli bacteria; for example with the classical
experiments by E. Budrene and H. Berg in Nature 349,630 1991 and 376, 49 1995.
Answer 6:
We now cite these classical papers in the introduction (corrections 3, 24) and then note that that the
pattern-forming mechanisms in liquid medium and in agar plates are different (correction 22). Our
study shows that metabolically active bacteria in a liquid medium behave as biochemical oscillators and
exhibit chemotaxis of the similar origin as synthetic Janus particles.
The structure of the manuscript could be somewhat clearer. It is often difficult to see what the authors
are aiming at and only becomes clear in a later paragraph. For example, it would be helpful if the
authors could make it clear from the beginning on, at what they are aiming with the mathematical
model. As of now, on pages 4 and 5 there is a discussion that bacterial chemotaxis is probably
unimportant for the formation of the observed patterns, which is then directly followed by the Keller-
2
Segel equation which are normally used to model pattern formation in microorganisms like
Dictyostelium which do sense chemicals. (That said, content-wise the approach of the authors seems
quite sensible to me, since very similar equations can also be derived for colloids (e.g. in some of the
references cited in the manuscript), but that should be explained more clearly I think.)
Answer 7:
The structure of the paper was clarified according to the kind suggestions of the referee.
The modifications were implemented in corrections 4, 9, 10, 14-22 and 24.
The connection between the present experimental findings and colloidal chemotaxis is conceptually
quite interesting and perhaps the most original part of the present manuscript. However, I think that it
is not clear enough in the manuscript what is meant by 'colloidal chemotaxis'. In particular, chemotaxis
in Janus colloids can refer either to the directed diffusion of a particle in a chemical concentration
gradient, or, to the alignment of these particles with the gradient. Perhaps it would help if the authors
could introduce both terms, bacterial chemotaxis (based on the sensation of chemicals) and "colloidal
chemotaxis", in their introduction.
Answer 8:
The meaning of ‘colloidal’ chemotaxis is explained in the introduction of the revised version of the
paper. We consider that ‘colloidal’ chemotaxis is a phoretic drift and alignment of the colloidal particles
(‘chemotactic colloids’ [Saha S, Golestanian R, Ramaswamy S. 2014 Clusters, asters, and collective
oscillations in chemotactic colloids. Phys. Rev. E 89, 062316]). Both terms (‘colloidal’ chemotaxis or
chemotactic colloids) are not widely accepted. Therefore, in certain cases we use instead phrases like
‘phoretic drift and alignment’.
The above modifications were implemented in corrections 4, 8, 9, 16 and 25.
In the introduction: The statement "As bacteria are colloids [1]..may be driven by phoretic but not
flagellar mechanisms" is somewhat confusing. Do the authors mean that bacteria may experience
chemotactic drift effects which move them in addition to their motion by active swimming?
Answer 9:
The unclear sentence was deleted. Two sentences were added (correction 5).
The style of the formulas is rather heterogeneous.
Answer 10:
The modelling section was improved according to the suggestions. The standard linear stability
analysis was moved to an Appendix A
(corrections 11 and 23).
3
Corre Text deleted from previous Text added to current version
ction version
#
1 Abstract….1) active cells …1) pattern-forming processes can be described by
(phoretic swimmers) can be Keller-Segel-type models of chemotaxis with logistic cell
considered as chemo- kinetics; 2) active cells can be considered as biochemical
mechanical pole-to-pole oscillators, which exhibit phoretic drift and alignment;…
oscillators; 2) the phoretic
swimming of an active aerobic
bacterium is driven by the
cooperative action of oxidative
phosphorylation and
oscillating Min systems of a
cell;…
2 Keywords:..Min oscillations… .. biochemical oscillations…
3 ….Chemotactic E. coli are capable to form sophisticated
patterns of self-organization on agar plates [6, 7].
4 The behaviour of self-phoretic The behaviour of self-phoretic micro-swimmers may
micro-swimmers may resemble the behaviour of a living cell by exhibiting
resemble the behaviour of a ‘colloidal’ chemotaxis along the self-generated gradients
living cell by exhibiting chemical gradients [11–16] or gradients of fuel [17, 18]. It
‘colloidal’ chemotaxis along is thought that synthetic chemotactic colloids exhibit
the self-generated gradients chemotactic behaviour due to interplay between self-
chemical gradients [11–16] or propulsion, phoretic drift, and alignment, driven by and
gradients of fuel [17, 18]. mediated via chemicals [12]. Moreover, the chemotaxis of
synthetic colloids is sometimes modelled by chemotaxis-
diffusion equations (Keller-Segel model) which are
normally used to model the chemotactic behaviour of
living cells [2, 11–16, 19].
5 …As bacteria are colloids [1] ….Although phoretic effects have been in focus of many
one can expect that, under theoretical and experimental studies there is a lack of
appropriate conditions, living insights into the role of such effects in suspensions of living
cells may be driven by phoretic cells. The complexity of transport of E. coli in liquid
but not flagellar mechanisms of suspensions was revealed recently by Schwarz-Linek et al.
self-propulsion. [3].
6 The results of mathematical The results of mathematical modelling of pattern formation
modelling of pattern formation are presented. The model is based on Keller-Segel equations
are presented. of chemotaxis with logistic cell kinetics.
4
7 The metabolic oscillations are It is argued that patterns are formed due to phoretic
explained by the coupling interactions between cells that exhibit biochemical
between oxidative oscillations [30, 31].
phosphorylation [28, 29] and
Min [30] systems of a cell.
8 We explain this mechanism as ..We explain this mechanism as ‘colloidal’ chemotaxis (i.e.,
colloidal chemotaxis, which is phoretic drift and alignment of chemotactic colloids [12]),
in line with recent studies of which is in line with recent studies of active suspensions of
active suspensions of synthetic synthetic particles [11–19].
particles [9–17].
9 In the following, we present In the following, we present the results of simulations of
the results of simulations and pattern-forming processes in the cultures of E. coli and
analysis that justify the discuss these processes assuming that active cells may
suggested principle of behave as chemotactic colloids.
colloidal (non-flagellar)
chemotaxis of active cells.
10 The Keller-Segel equations can be used to model pattern
formation in bacterial populations [25]. However, the similar
equations can also be derived for chemotactic colloids [2,
11–16, 19]. Below, our mathematical model of pattern-
forming processes is provided, keeping in mind that active
cells may behave as chemotactic colloids that exhibit
phoretic interactions [19].
11 3.3.2 Stability analysis of 3.3.2 Pattern formation parameters
pattern formation
5
12 ...Values of the dimensionless parameters of the model were
determined experimentally by changing input parameters
and aiming to achieve an irregular wave pattern comparable
to the one shown in figure 1b. Taking into account the
transformation of variables [22, 25], one can determine the
values of the dimensional parameters. Assuming that the
length l* = 22 mm of the three-phase contact line and the
duration T* = 4 h = 1.44 <U+F0B4> 104 s of the physical experiment to
be simulated correspond to the dimensionless length (l =
2<U+F070>r, where r = 2.5 is the plate radius) and the duration (T =
400) used in the pattern simulation, we calculate the
dimensional diffusion coefficient of the chemoattractant (Dc
= (l*/l)2 <U+F0B4> (T/T*) <U+F0BB> 5.5 <U+F0B4> 10-2 mm2/s) and of the cells (Dn =
0.1 Dc <U+F0BB> 5.5 <U+F0B4> 10-3 mm2/s). This value of the diffusion
coefficient Dn of E. coli cells is greater than that (2–4 <U+F0B4>10–4
mm2/s) determined by Berg and Turner [47]. However, it
rather well fits with the estimates made by Perry (2.2 <U+F0B4> 10–3
mm2/s) [48] and by Lin et al. (7 <U+F0B4> 10–3 mm2/s) [49]. The
dimensional cell growth rate in our model equals <U+F061>(T/T*) <U+F0BB>
0.028 s-1, which also means that the cell division period
equals ln(2)/0.028 <U+F0BB> 25 s. This value of the cell division
period is discussed below.
13 According to equation (7), the …According to equation (5), the number m of aggregates
unstable wavenumber k varies varies from mmin = ceil(rk1) <U+F0BB> ceil(2.87) = 3 upto mmax =
from k1 <U+F0BB> 1.32 to k2 <U+F0BB> 7.53 (<U+F06B> <U+F0BB> floor(rk2) <U+F0BB> floor(6.86) = 6, where k1 <U+F0BB> 1.32 and k2 <U+F0BB> 7.53 are
4.52), and the corresponding the unstable wavenumbers k (<U+F06B> <U+F0BB> 4.52, see Appendix A).
number m of aggregates varies
from mmin = ceil(rk1) <U+F0BB> ceil(2.87)
= 3 to mmax = floor(rk2) <U+F0BB>
floor(6.86) = 6.
14 3.4 Phoretic interactions 3.4 Pattern-forming processes in the growing
between pole-to-pole culture
oscillators
15 3.4.1 Chemotaxis and phoretic interactions
16 ...The chemotactic motion of the phoretic particle can be
seen as its phoretic drift and alignment due to coupling with
the ‘phoretic field’ which is generated by all other colloids
[19]. We consider that phoretic field is an effective chemical
field whose gradient induces phoretic migration of cells….
17 3.4.2 Growth and oscillations
6
18 As was shown above, the dimensional cell growth rate in our
model equals 0.028 s-1. At first glance this result appears to
be unexpected, since the rate of bacterial growth is of the
order of h-1 [3, 6, 7]. In the previous studies we interpreted
similar results by assuming temporal changes of cell
behaviour due to their metabolic flexibility [21, 23, 24]. It is
known that the intracellular oscillations may emerge in a
living cell [30]. Despite the fact that the details of oscillatory
processes, which determine the growth rate in our model, are
unknown, we hypothesize that some active pole-to-pole
oscillators may be involved.
19 ….This speculative assumption should be validated in future
studies.
20 3.4.3. Phoretic interactions between biochemical
oscillators
21 In summary, the formation of spatiotemporal patterns in a
growing culture can be explained by phoretic interactions in
population of biochemical oscillators. In order to
characterize the relevant dynamic processes let’s return to
the equation (11).
22 Consequently, when a = 0.028 s-1, we have <U+F074>phor = 360 s;
<U+F074>swim = 36 s; <U+F074>form=18 s. These estimates indicate that phoretic
interactions between short-period (~0.5 min) biochemical
oscillators in the growing culture of E. coli should be
accompanied by the collective chemical oscillations (grow
and decay of the phoretic field) with period of about 6
minutes. These results show that the pattern-forming
mechanisms in liquid medium and in agar plates [6, 7] are
different. Although, in both cases the key processes are
chemotaxis and growth, yet the origins and time-scales of
these processes are different.
23 Appendix A. Stability analysis
7
24
A. Mitchell P. 2011 A. Budrene EO, Berg HC. 1991 Complex patterns formed
Chemiosmotic coupling by motile cells of Escherichia coli. Nature 349, 630–633.
in oxidative and B. Budrene EO, Berg HC. 1995 Dynamics of formation of
photosynthetic symmetrical patterns by chemotactic bacteria. Nature
phosphorylation. 1995, 376:49–53.
Biochim. Biophys. Acta, C. Berg HC, Turner L. 1990 Chemotaxis of bacteria in glass
Bioenerg. 1807, 1507– capillary arrays. Escherichia coli, motility, microchannel
1538. plate, and light scattering, Biophys. J. 58, 919–930.
B. Magalon A, Alberge F. D. Perry N. 2005 Experimental validation of a critical
2016 Distribution and domain size in reaction–diffusion systems with
dynamics of OXPHOS Escherichia coli populations. J. R. Soc. Interface 2, 379–
complexes in the 387.
bacterial cytoplasmic E. Lin AL, Mann BA, Torres-Oviedo G, Lincoln B, Kas J,
membrane. Biochim. Swinney HL. 2004 Localization and extinction of
Biophys. Acta, Bioenerg. bacterial populations under inhomogeneous growth
1857, 198–213. conditions. Biophys. J. 87, 75–80.
25 Figure 8. A metabolically active Figure 8. A model of aerobically growing E. coli cell.
cell is considered as a chemo- A metabolically active cell is considered as a pole-to-
mechanical pole-to-pole pole oscillator that moves chemotactically (curved line)
oscillator that moves like a chemical-reaction-driven Janus particle in the
chemotactically (curved line) inhomogeneous chemical (phoretic) field, which is
like a chemical-reaction-driven generated by all other colloids (blue triangle).
Janus particle in the self-
produced and rapidly growing
phoretic field (blue triangle).
8
Society Open
