Ageing and agency: age-related changes in susceptibility to
illusory experiences of control
Maria Cristina Cioffi, Gianna Cocchini, Michael J. Banissy and James W. Moore
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161065.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161065
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 December 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 21 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-161065.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Kou Murayama)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The study examined age-related differences in agency belief. The manuscript is well written and
easy to follow. The topic is timely and I indeed enjoyed reading the paper. I have, however,
several concerns.
* The description of Metcalfe's study is not specific enough to see the novelty of the current paper
for naive readers (although I know the paper). Please clarify more specifically what was already
observed and what the current study is going to contribute to.
* The procedure was not very clear to me. The authors said there are 16 stimuli but they also said
that participants were given 12 trials (for each condition?), which seemed inconsistent to me.
Also, do they use the same actions between the conditions? The authors indicated that the
authors collected ratings after the third trial but I believe it was every three trials?
* There are two major issues in the interpretations of the results.
First, it is not very clear if the results really demonstrated older adults' insensitivity to external
agency cues. The main results seem to be largely driven by the reduction in the ratings of the
match condition. This makes me wonder if older adults simply have the general tendency to
report lower agency/ownership than younger adults (this includes the possibility of response
bias). Yes, the authors found the interaction and this can address the concern, but there seems to
be a floor effect in the mismatch condition (see Wagenmakers et al., 2011, M&C, for the difficulty
of interpreting this sort of interaction).
Second, small sample sizes are a bit worriesome. How did the authors determine the sample sizes
in advance? The problem of small sample size studies is that these studies are susceptible to so
called p-hacking (indeed, some of the key results are just statistically significant). Given the
recent concerns about reproducibility, and given the open science policy of this journal, the
authors should justify the small sample sizes by explicitly and honestly stating (1) how they
determined the sample sizes in advance (not a post-hoc justification), (2) whether the authors did
any interim statistical analysis, and (3) whether the authors assessed any other measures than
those reported in the paper. To be clear, small sample sizes (as well as the other research
practices) are not by themselves problematic (see Murayama, Pekrun, and Fiedler, 2014), but they
need to be transparent about their decisions and procedure so that others can gauge the
credibility of the findings.
* Also, their sample sizes indicate that their counterbalancing (there should be 4 counterbalancing
conditions) is incomplete. I usually do not care this slight deviation but given the marginal
effects, I want to be a bit wary of this.
* The test of the interaction and the test of the difference in difference are redundant. Indeed,
these analyses are mathematically equivalent (as can be seen, p values are identical and F and t
values are equivalent after converting one from the other). Please omit one of them.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Philip Corlett)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
3
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a very clearly written paper, the data are compelling.
I have little to add and no concerns.
One point though. The interoceptive tasks in study 2; if the authors are interested in arguing that
the differences in interoception explain the differences in ownership or agency, they might
consider computing the correlation between interoceptive scores, agency and ownership. The
presence of a correlation between better interoceptive performance in the older adults and
weaker experiences of illusory agency would support the claim more strongly than merely
observing the interoceptive effect.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161065)
20th March 2017
Dear Ms Cioffi,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Aging and agency: Age-related changes in susceptibility to
illusory experiences of control") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11th April 2017). If we
do not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn.
In exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
4
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161065
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Essi Viding
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study examined age-related differences in agency belief. The manuscript is well written and
easy to follow. The topic is timely and I indeed enjoyed reading the paper. I have, however,
several concerns.
* The description of Metcalfe's study is not specific enough to see the novelty of the current paper
for naive readers (although I know the paper). Please clarify more specifically what was already
observed and what the current study is going to contribute to.
* The procedure was not very clear to me. The authors said there are 16 stimuli but they also said
that participants were given 12 trials (for each condition?), which seemed inconsistent to me.
Also, do they use the same actions between the conditions? The authors indicated that the
authors collected ratings after the third trial but I believe it was every three trials?
* There are two major issues in the interpretations of the results.
First, it is not very clear if the results really demonstrated older adults' insensitivity to external
agency cues. The main results seem to be largely driven by the reduction in the ratings of the
match condition. This makes me wonder if older adults simply have the general tendency to
report lower agency/ownership than younger adults (this includes the possibility of response
bias). Yes, the authors found the interaction and this can address the concern, but there seems to
be a floor effect in the mismatch condition (see Wagenmakers et al., 2011, M&C, for the difficulty
of interpreting this sort of interaction).
Second, small sample sizes are a bit worriesome. How did the authors determine the sample sizes
in advance? The problem of small sample size studies is that these studies are susceptible to so
called p-hacking (indeed, some of the key results are just statistically significant). Given the
recent concerns about reproducibility, and given the open science policy of this journal, the
authors should justify the small sample sizes by explicitly and honestly stating (1) how they
determined the sample sizes in advance (not a post-hoc justification), (2) whether the authors did
6
any interim statistical analysis, and (3) whether the authors assessed any other measures than
those reported in the paper. To be clear, small sample sizes (as well as the other research
practices) are not by themselves problematic (see Murayama, Pekrun, and Fiedler, 2014), but they
need to be transparent about their decisions and procedure so that others can gauge the
credibility of the findings.
* Also, their sample sizes indicate that their counterbalancing (there should be 4 counterbalancing
conditions) is incomplete. I usually do not care this slight deviation but given the marginal
effects, I want to be a bit wary of this.
* The test of the interaction and the test of the difference in difference are redundant. Indeed,
these analyses are mathematically equivalent (as can be seen, p values are identical and F and t
values are equivalent after converting one from the other). Please omit one of them.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very clearly written paper, the data are compelling.
I have little to add and no concerns.
One point though. The interoceptive tasks in study 2; if the authors are interested in arguing that
the differences in interoception explain the differences in ownership or agency, they might
consider computing the correlation between interoceptive scores, agency and ownership. The
presence of a correlation between better interoceptive performance in the older adults and
weaker experiences of illusory agency would support the claim more strongly than merely
observing the interoceptive effect.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161065)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161065.R1)
21st April 2017
Dear Ms Cioffi,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Aging and agency: Age-related
changes in susceptibility to illusory experiences of control" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
7
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
Dear Prof. Viding,
RE: Manuscript ID RSOS-161065 Aging and agency: Age-related changes in susceptibility
to illusory experiences of control
We are very grateful to the reviewers for their comments on our paper, and glad that
they think this will make an important contribution to the literature. In replying to the
reviewers’ comments we feel that our paper has been improved.
We have detailed our responses below and manuscript amendments have been
highlighted as appropriate.
Reviewer: 1
We are pleased that the referee considered the manuscript well written and the topic
timely. Below we have addressed her/his comments.
* The description of Metcalfe's study is not specific enough to see the novelty of the current
paper for naive readers (although I know the paper). Please clarify more specifically what
was already observed and what the current study is going to contribute to.
We thank the reviewer for highlighting this point. We have now been more specific in
describing Metcalfe’s study and the contribute of the current study by inserting this
paragraph [page 3, line 21-29]:
‘Moreover, Metcalfe and colleagues (2010) (6) showed that people’s metacognition of
agency changes across the lifespan. In particular, they showed that older adults were less
sensitive to external performance manipulations, such as the insertion of temporal or
spatial distortion between their movement and a cursor moving on the screen. Although
not a direct test of this, Metcalfe et al.’s study suggests that the influence of external
agency cues may be reduced in older adults. In the present experiments, we directly
investigate the age-related changes in the influence of internal and external agency cues.
We do so by testing the susceptibility to illusory experience of control induced by the
manipulation of external agency cues.’
* The procedure was not very clear to me. The authors said there are 16 stimuli but they also
said that participants were given 12 trials (for each condition?), which seemed inconsistent
to me. Also, do they use the same actions between the conditions? The authors indicated
that the authors collected ratings after the third trial but I believe it was every three trials?
We realised that the procedure was not clear and we have now rephrased part of the
explanation in the manuscript as follows [page 5, line 17 - page 6, line 9]:
‘A tape with a list of 16 unimanual action instructions was played (e.g., “make a waving
gesture,” “snap the fingers twice”, “point to the mirror”). The examiner performed an
action immediately after each instruction. Each instruction-action stimulus, consisting of
one instruction plus action performed by the experimenter, lasted between 8 and 10
seconds with a three second break between stimuli.
There were two within-subject conditions. In the match condition the action
corresponded to the instruction; whereas in the mismatch condition each instruction was
randomly matched with a different action (e.g. after the instruction “make a waving
gesture” the examiner snapped their fingers). In this mismatch condition, the gesture was
different for every repetition of the same instruction (e.g., on the second repetition, after
the instruction “make a waving gesture” the examiner pointed to the mirror). These
conditions were completed for both the right and left hand separately. The order of
match – mismatch conditions and the order of hand tested were counterbalanced across
participants. The list of 16 instruction-action stimuli was repeated from the beginning to
the end without interruption 3 times for each of the four conditions (match/mismatch
and left/right hand), so as to augment the effects of this manipulation. The list of 16
action instructions was kept identical for the entire experiment, only the actions
performed by the experimenter changed accordingly to the condition.
At the end of each condition participants were asked to report their experiences by
answering 3 questions on a 7-point scale from 1 - not at all - to 7 - very much (this was
done for each hand and the judgements were averaged across hands). In total, each
participant was given 12 instruction-action list repetitions (i.e. 3 repetitions for each of
the 4 conditions) and provided 4 ratings for each of the questions reported below.’
* There are two major issues in the interpretations of the results.
First, it is not very clear if the results really demonstrated older adults' insensitivity to
external agency cues. The main results seem to be largely driven by the reduction in the
ratings of the match condition. This makes me wonder if older adults simply have the general
tendency to report lower agency/ownership than younger adults (this includes the possibility
of response bias). Yes, the authors found the interaction and this can address the concern,
but there seems to be a floor effect in the mismatch condition (see Wagenmakers et al.,
2011, M&C, for the difficulty of interpreting this sort of interaction).
We thank the reviewer for this comment. Participants were asked to report their ratings
on anticipation, agency and ownership. Older adults reported lower ratings in agency
and ownership but no differences were found in the anticipation question which
functioned as a control question. We therefore believe that the effect found is not
reflecting a response bias, as it is specific for agency and ownership and not for
anticipation. We have clarified this in the manuscript.:
In the procedure section [page 6, line 18-19]:
‘This question [Anticipation] also serves as a control for any response bias (e.g. general
tendency of one group to report higher or lower ratings).’
And in the discussion [page 9, line 14-17]:
‘As both groups did not show any difference in the check question, i.e. the Anticipation
question, we can conclude that the group differences in agency and ownership on this
task are unlikely to be explained by differences in attention, or any response bias.’
Second, small sample sizes are a bit worriesome. How did the authors determine the sample
sizes in advance? The problem of small sample size studies is that these studies are
susceptible to so called p-hacking (indeed, some of the key results are just statistically
significant). Given the recent concerns about reproducibility, and given the open science
policy of this journal, the authors should justify the small sample sizes by explicitly and
honestly stating (1) how they determined the sample sizes in advance (not a post-hoc
justification), (2) whether the authors did any interim statistical analysis, and (3) whether the
authors assessed any other measures than those reported in the paper. To be clear, small
sample sizes (as well as the other research practices) are not by themselves problematic (see
Murayama, Pekrun, and Fiedler, 2014), but they need to be transparent about their decisions
and procedure so that others can gauge the credibility of the findings.
We have now added statements that address these points in the manuscript:
‘The sample size for our experiments were guided by previous studies using the vicarious
agency paradigm (e.g. n = 16 in Wegner et al., 2004; n = 8 in Cioffi et al., 2016). Our
sample size exceeded these previous studies but was constrained by the availability of
older adult participants within the timeframe of this project.’ [Page 4, Line 29-32]
‘All measures assessed are reported in the paper and no interim statistical analysis was
performed.’ [Page 10, Line 14-15]
While we are aware that this not recommended practice, we also checked whether the
effects found are still present when analysing the data combining the samples from the
two experiments (N = 32 for younger adults group; N = 31 for older adults group). All
the effects found are maintained in the combined sample (p < .01).
* Also, their sample sizes indicate that their counterbalancing (there should be 4
counterbalancing conditions) is incomplete. I usually do not care this slight deviation but
given the marginal effects, I want to be a bit wary of this.
We have now addressed this and checked for any effects of incomplete
counterbalancing. We have run for each experiment mixed design ANOVAs on
anticipation, agency and ownership ratings, with Counterbalancing Order as between-
subjects factor (Order 1/Order 2/Order 3/Order 4), and Condition (Match/Mismatch) as
within-subjects factor. The results show no main effects of Counterbalancing Order (p >
.250), nor interactions between Counterbalancing Order and Condition (p > .250).
* The test of the interaction and the test of the difference in difference are redundant.
Indeed, these analyses are mathematically equivalent (as can be seen, p values are identical
and F and t values are equivalent after converting one from the other). Please omit one of
them.
We have now removed the analyses on difference scores.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very clearly written paper, the data are compelling.
I have little to add and no concerns.
One point though. The interoceptive tasks in study 2; if the authors are interested in arguing
that the differences in interoception explain the differences in ownership or agency, they
might consider computing the correlation between interoceptive scores, agency and
ownership. The presence of a correlation between better interoceptive performance in the
older adults and weaker experiences of illusory agency would support the claim more
strongly than merely observing the interoceptive effect.
We are pleased that the reviewer thinks our paper will make a nice contribution. Looking
at the correlations between interoceptive scores and the modulation of agency induced
by the illusion is indeed a valid suggestion. We have now done so.
We ran correlations between the vicarious agency effect and interoceptive and
proprioceptive accuracy errors. The vicarious agency effect was calculated as the mean
difference between match and mismatch trials for the agency question. We found that a
reduction in the strength of the illusion of agency was correlated, with both improved
interoceptive and proprioceptive accuracy (N = 35, interoceptive: r = .40, p = .019;
proprioceptive: r = .38, p = .026). These findings confirm our hypothesis that better
performance on the interoceptive and proprioceptive measures may correlate with a
reduction in the strength of the illusion.
We then looked at the correlations for each group separately. No significant correlations
were found, except from a significant correlation between interoceptive awareness and
the agency effect (N = 18, r = .49, p = .038) in younger adults, which was in the same
direction of the general correlations reported above. As the stability of correlations can
be influenced by sample size in smaller samples we are reluctant to present these results
in the paper. However, we are happy to do so if the reviewer or the editor think this
would be beneficial.
Society Open
