Experimental measurements of water molecule binding
energies for the second and third solvation shells of
[Ca(H2O)n]2+ complexes
E. Bruzzi and A. J. Stace
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160671.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160671
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 September 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 25 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160671.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors measure binding energies for calcium dication complexes with water out to the size
range assigned to second and third solvation shells. The results appear to be reliable and
convincing and the paper should be published. Near the end, the discussion mentions that the
influence of the cation can be felt in the outer shell water molecules because their binding
energies have not yet converged to "bulk" values. This is a good point, but it is not the first
observation of such a thing. Duncan and coworkers made similar comments for Ni+ water
complexes on the basis of the band positions and shifts in their IR spectra. Williams used similar
results to make similar conclusions on even larger alkaline earth dication species. These previous
results should be mentioned and integrated into the discussion near the end of the paper. After
that, it can be published.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Stuart Mackenzie)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Attached (Appendix A).
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160671)
24-Oct-2016
Dear Dr Stace:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160671 entitled
"Experimental measurements of water molecule binding energies for the second and third
solvation shells of [Ca(H2O)n]2+ complexes." has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript according to the comments and to add the following statements. Please note that we
cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We have included a
screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given heading is not
relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is not
relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160671
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
4
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Nov-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
On behalf of the Associate Editor Dr Hazel Cox
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors measure binding energies for calcium dication complexes with water out to the size
range assigned to second and third solvation shells. The results appear to be reliable and
convincing and the paper should be published. Near the end, the discussion mentions that the
influence of the cation can be felt in the outer shell water molecules because their binding
energies have not yet converged to "bulk" values. This is a good point, but it is not the first
observation of such a thing. Duncan and coworkers made similar comments for Ni+ water
complexes on the basis of the band positions and shifts in their IR spectra. Williams used similar
results to make similar conclusions on even larger alkaline earth dication species. These previous
results should be mentioned and integrated into the discussion near the end of the paper. After
that, it can be published.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Attached
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160671)
Thank you for sending the referees comments and we are please to see that they have
recommended publication.
In response to Reviewer 1, a sentence has been added to the Conclusion highlighting the fact that
the conclusions from work by these two authors support the outcome of our own work. In fact,
one of the references was already included in the paper.
In response to Reviewer 2, we would rather not merge figures 2 and 3 because figure 2 is already
quite busy and the extra material might detract from the central message. All of the typos
identified have been corrected.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160671.R1)
25-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Stace,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Experimental measurements of water
molecule binding energies for the second and third solvation shells of [Ca(H2O)n]2+ complexes."
is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Siobhán Hackett
Royal Society Open Science
chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
(There are no comments.)
Experimental measurements of water molecule binding energies for the second and third solvation
shells……
by Bruzzi and Stace
Review by: Stuart Mackenzie (Oxford Chemistry) – included in the spirit of transparency which I
understand this journal to be promoting
This short article describes a finite heat bath analysis of sophisticated mass spectrometric data
concerning dissociation of gas-phase [Ca(H2O)n]2+ complexes. The same authors have previously used
this approach very successfully to determine binding energy trends for similar multiply–charged
complexes.
The key data provided by this study consists of the binding energies for successive water molecule
ligands to Ca2+ ions. This technique is rare in its ability to provide this information over such a large
range of cluster sizes, and it is this aspect which the present study utilises to draw inferences
regarding multiple solvation shells.
I am no expert in the finite heat bath method but the experimental data appear to have been
collected and analysed with appropriate care and the uncertainties ascribed to the numbers
extracted give one confidence in the interpretations. Where appropriate, the new data is compared
with literature values and suitable discussion of any differences is provided.
The major result – that the central cation materially affects binding energies far beyond the first
solvation shell – is significant and I recommend this article be published without the need for major
revision.
In revising the manuscript, the authors may note the following observations:
Figure 3 contains a reproduction of the same experimental data as in Figure 2. I suggest including the
H+(H2O)n on Figure 2 directly.
It is unfortunate that both table 1 and figure 1 each cross two pages but this will be corrected in any
published article.
Pg 9 line 5 “achieve” should be “achieved”
pg 13 (two occurences) I am sure [Ca(NH2)n]2+ should be [Ca(NH3)n]2+ as per Fig 5 to which they refer
pg 14 top line of text “see” should be “seen”
Society Open
