Phylotranscriptomic analysis uncovers a wealth of tissue
inhibitors of metalloproteinase variants in echinoderms
Ronald M. Clouse, Gregorio V. Linchangco Jr, Alexander M. Kerr, Robert W. Reid and
Daniel A. Janies
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150377.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150377
Review timeline
Original submission: 29 July 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 October 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150377.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ana Ribeiro)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The article is well organised, written and the topic is very interesting for publication in the Royal
Society Journal.
Authors should consider the following questions:
- In the abstract line 19 oncotherapeutic and not oncotheraputic;
-In the abstract the goal of the article should be emphasised, why this study with echinoderms?
- In keywords I do not agree with the introduction of metastasis. The article describes the relation
of MMPs and TIMPs with cancer and the potencial applications of this study in the field of
cancer, however a few considerations were done regarding metastasis.
- In the introduction, the relation of MMPs and MCTs should be better described. Line 43 authors
stress that TIMPs bind to collagen, is that true? The authors should read the following article
Matrix Metalloproteinases in a Sea Urchin Ligament with
Adaptable Mechanical Properties, PlosOne, November 2012 | Volume 7 | Issue 11 | e49016.
- In the discussion line 306, stress what are the new possibly roles of specialised TIMPs;
- In the discussion, in the last paragraph, it is not stressed why the data obtained is relevant for
the development of new materials and new cancer treatment.
- Legend of Figure 1: dermal liquefaction instead of collagen liquefaction;
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Alice Barbaglio)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear and supplementary material is adequate
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Alice Barbaglio, PhD, Università degli Studi di Milano (Italy).
I am not an phylogeny expert, but I have been working on MCTs for the last 10 years, so I am
perfectly aware of what is going on.
I found the paper really interesting and needed! I have anyway some minor comments.
3
Starting from the keywords, I understand that "oncotherapy" and "metastasis" are intriguing
keywords, but there is not actually a set of data that allow to discuss for the translational use of
echinoderm TIMPs for the study of tumors. Maybe it can be the topic of a future study and of a
future paper.
In the introduction section:
- the sentence "Because holothuroids have abundance of collagenous tissue…" sounds a bit naive.
Every animal have abundance of collagenous tissues, as we, animal, are composed 30% of
collagen.
- "Because some invertebrate TIMPs…we expect echinoderm TIMPs to be recovered among
clades of vertebrate TIMPs 1-4": why do you expect this?
M&M:
- shouldn't be described how do you prepare tissues for RNA-seq?
- statistics: my only concern regard the number of samples utilized:in table 1, there is not an
indication of how many samples per species where analysed. For example, for Asteroidea the
authors analysed 14 species, but how many specimens/samples were collected and processed for
each species?
- was there a reason to select these particular species and, in the different species, these particular
samples (pinnules, tube feet, etc)?
Results:
- line 245: what do you mean with "earliest echinoderm sequences"
Discussion:
-Could the authors give an idea of the next step of this research? What do you plan to do next?
- Could the authors discuss more extensively which could be role of the different TIMPs in
echinoderms?
- Could the authors discuss more extensively which could be the relationship between
echinoderm class/TIMP and TIMP/MCTpresence? How could you comment the difference
between TIMPs presence in the different echinoderm classes that use MCT at a different extent?
References:
have a look at Ribeiro et al. (2012). Matrix Metalloproteinases in a Sea Urchin Ligament with
Adaptable Mechanical Properties. PLOS ONE. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049016
and at
Wilkie et al. (2015). Mechanical Properties of the Compass Depressors of the Sea-Urchin
Paracentrotus lividus (Echinodermata, Echinoidea) and the Effects of Enzymes,
Neurotransmitters and Synthetic Tensilin-Like Protein. PLOS ONE. DOI:
10.1371/journal.pone.0120339
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150377)
09-Oct-2015
Dear Dr Clouse,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Phylotranscriptomic analysis uncovers a wealth of TIMP
variants in echinoderms") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
4
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 01-Nov-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150377
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
5
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150377)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Dear Mr. Allinson:
We thank you and Royal Society Open Science very much for your kind
consideration of our manuscript on the evolution of TIMP genes, and we are pleased
it received a positive response. We have submitted a revised manuscript and a file
documenting the changes. Below we respond to each of the reviewer’s queries and
suggestions. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me at
any time.
Cheers,
Ronald M. Clouse
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The article is well organised, written and the topic is very interesting for
publication in the Royal Society Journal.
We thank the reviewer for their interest in and careful reading of our article.
Authors should consider the following questions:
In the abstract line 19 oncotherapeutic and not oncotheraputic;
o We have corrected this spelling error.
In the abstract the goal of the article should be emphasised, why this
study with echinoderms?
o We have now stated in the Abstract that our goal was to understand the
evolution of TIMPs in echinoderms.
In keywords I do not agree with the introduction of metastasis. The
article describes the relation of MMPs and TIMPs with cancer and the
potencial applications of this study in the field of cancer, however a few
considerations were done regarding metastasis.
o We have removed reference to metastasis in the Abstract and key
words, and we now mention it only when reporting the results of
previous studies specifically on the role of TIMPs in metastasis.
In the introduction, the relation of MMPs and MCTs should be better
described. Line 43 authors stress that TIMPs bind to collagen, is that
true? The authors should read the following article Matrix
Metalloproteinases in a Sea Urchin Ligament with Adaptable
Mechanical Properties, PlosOne, November 2012 | Volume 7 | Issue 11 |
e49016.
o We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to this important
reference, and we have rewritten the introduction to include the
important finding therein. We have minimized our mention of direct
collagen binding, merely referring the reader to Takehana et al. (2014),
where this hypothesis is found.
In the discussion line 306, stress what are the new possibly roles of
specialised TIMPs;
o We have now added discussion about the possibility that the various
new TIMPs discovered here could play roles in fission, autonomy,
movement, evisceration, and liquefaction in different environmental
conditions.
In the discussion, in the last paragraph, it is not stressed why the data
obtained is relevant for the development of new materials and new
cancer treatment.
o We have now stated explicitly that the role of the diversity of TIMPs
uncovered here is to help build a more comprehensive and accurate
classification of TIMPs, understanding the connections between
different domains and motifs in their residues and specific functions in
tissues of interest.
Legend of Figure 1: dermal liquefaction instead of collagen liquefaction;
o We have made this change in the legend of Figure 1.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Alice Barbaglio, PhD, Università degli Studi di Milano (Italy).
I am not an phylogeny expert, but I have been working on MCTs for the last 10
years, so I am perfectly aware of what is going on.
I found the paper really interesting and needed! I have anyway some minor
comments.
We thank Dr. Barbaglio for her enthusiasm about our article, and we have attempted
to edit it to address her concerns.
Starting from the keywords, I understand that "oncotherapy" and
"metastasis" are intriguing keywords, but there is not actually a set of
data that allow to discuss for the translational use of echinoderm TIMPs
for the study of tumors. Maybe it can be the topic of a future study and
of a future paper.
o We have greatly reduced our references to cancer in the Abstract and
have removed cancer-related keywords.
In the introduction section:
the sentence "Because holothuroids have abundance of collagenous
tissue…" sounds a bit naive. Every animal have abundance of
collagenous tissues, as we, animal, are composed 30% of collagen.
o We agree and have replaced this phrase with “because most
holothuroids rely on MCTs to maintain body turgour.”
"Because some invertebrate TIMPs…we expect echinoderm TIMPs to be
recovered among clades of vertebrate TIMPs 1-4": why do you expect
this?
o We have changed this phrasing to “we tested” whether that
classification had any support.
M&M:
shouldn't be described how do you prepare tissues for RNA-seq?
o We have added more detail to these steps in the process.
statistics: my only concern regard the number of samples utilized:in
table 1, there is not an indication of how many samples per species where
analysed. For example, for Asteroidea the authors analysed 14 species,
but how many specimens/samples were collected and processed for each
species?
o We have clarified in the text that for each entry in Table 1, there was
only 1 specimen analyzed. Thus, the number of taxa and the number of
specimens are the same. For the statistics, we use non-parametric
comparisons of all the five classes at once (thus a degrees of freedom of
4), and the samples sizes within those classes are just the number of
taxa listed in Table 1.
was there a reason to select these particular species and, in the different
species, these particular samples (pinnules, tube feet, etc)?
o We have clarified in the text our logic behind the taxa and tissues
selected. We attempted to sample across the full breadth of echinoderm
diversity, and we wanted to sample fully differentiated adult tissues.
Results:
line 245: what do you mean with "earliest echinoderm sequences"
o We have clarified this phrase to communicate that we mean the earliest
diverging sequences in our phylogeny.
Discussion:
Could the authors give an idea of the next step of this research? What do
you plan to do next?
o We have rewritten the Discussion extensively to describe our thoughts
about the next steps, which would be to work toward expanding and
testing a new classification scheme for TIMPs with the long-term goal
of understanding the connections between different sequence motifs and
biochemical processes. We are not biochemists but rather focused on
historical reconstruction, but we are also in echinoderms and
deuterostomes in general and will look for opportunities to assist in this
effort as they arise.
Could the authors discuss more extensively which could be role of the
different TIMPs in echinoderms?
o We have expanded our discussion to include reference to fission,
evisceration, autonomy, and the possibility that holothuroids have
needed to expand their TIMP repertoire as they have diversified into
new environments.
Could the authors discuss more extensively which could be the
relationship between echinoderm class/TIMP and TIMP/MCTpresence?
How could you comment the difference between TIMPs presence in the
different echinoderm classes that use MCT at a different extent?
o We have attempted to expand the discussion along these lines. Because
out knowledge of MCTs and TIMPs in echinoderms is limited, much of
this is speculation, but ligament movement and autonomy give
echinoderms with extensive calcareous skeletons a need for TIMPs and
MCT, and the added functions of reproduction by fission, evisceration,
and body wall liquefaction give holothuroids additional MCT (and
presumably thus TIMP) needs.
References:
have a look at Ribeiro et al. (2012). Matrix Metalloproteinases in a Sea
Urchin Ligament with Adaptable Mechanical Properties. PLOS ONE.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049016
and at
Wilkie et al. (2015). Mechanical Properties of the Compass Depressors of
the Sea-Urchin Paracentrotus lividus (Echinodermata, Echinoidea) and
the Effects of Enzymes, Neurotransmitters and Synthetic Tensilin-Like
Protein. PLOS ONE. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120339
o We thank Dr. Barbaglio for drawing our attention to these references
and have included information from these important studies throughout
our manuscript now.
Society Open
