Markovian language model of the DNA and its information
content
S. Srivastava and M. S. Baptista
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150527.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150527
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 May 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 1 October 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 24 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 26 November 2015
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150215.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see the attachment. (See Appendix A.)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I found the paper very unclearly written and with poor organisation. Starting from the
introduction, the text consists of poorly connected sentences some of which are badly written
themselves. Bits about the authors' model are introduced intermingled with a revision of the
state-of-the-art in the area without clearly framing any.
On a more methodological side, the validity of a Markov model to explain the structure of DNA
is at least dubious. For instance, one would attempt to model human language as a Markov
model and some structure would be captured but it's only in retrospective and because we
understand language that we can appreciate the limitations of that approach. In the case of DNA,
a more rigorous validation needs to be presented since we cannot assess the model a posteriori.
The authors should make a rigorous corss-validation the model by training it on one database
and the predicting the structure of another. Otherwise, it could be just an a consequence of
overfitting.
Additionally, there is little discussion of the statistical validity of the analysis. For instance, the
estimation of MIR is normally affect by bias, but it's not discussed.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150215)
06-Jul-2015
Dear Miss Srivastava:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150215 entitled "Markovian language model of the DNA and its information
content" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments
from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 03-Jan-2016. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Ms Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150215)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-150527.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
4
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have responded appropriately to my concerns and I am satisfied with the
modifications introduced in the manuscript
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150527)
17-Nov-2015
Dear Miss Srivastava
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150527 entitled
"Markovian language model of the DNA and its information content" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150527
5
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 26-Nov-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
6
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Matjaz Perc):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Thank you for the thorough revision of your manuscript, which we are happy to accept for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have responded appropriately to my concerns and I am satisfied with the
modifications introduced in the manuscript
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150527
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150527
MS Title: Markovian language model of the DNA and its information content
MS Authors: Srivastava, Shambhavi; Baptista, Murilo
Contact Author: Shambhavi Srivastava
Contact Author Email: r05ss12@abdn.ac.uk
Contact Author Address 1: Meston Walk, Meston Building
Contact Author Address 2: University of Aberdeen
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Aberdeen
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: United Kingdom
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: AB24 3UE
Keywords: DNA linguistic model, Symbolic dynamics, Markov partitions, chains, models,
Information and ergodic theory, Network theory, Correlation decay, mutual information rate and
entropy rate
Abstract: This work proposes a markovian memoryless model for the DNA that simplifies
enormously the complexity of it. We encode nucleotide sequences into symbolic sequences, called
words, from which we establish meaningful length of words and group of words that share
symbolic similarities. Interpreting a node to represent a group of similar words and edges to
7
represent their functional connectivity allows us to construct a network of the grammatical rules
governing the appearance of group of words in the DNA. Our model allows to predict the
transition between group of words in the DNA with unprecedented accuracy, and to easily
calculate many informational quantities to better characterize the DNA. In addition, we reduce
the DNA of known bacteria to a network of only tens of nodes, show how our model can be used
to detect similar (or dissimilar) genes in different organisms, and which sequences of symbols are
responsible for the most of the information content of the DNA. Therefore, the DNA can indeed
be treated as a language, a markovian language, where a "word" is an element of a group, and its
grammar represents the rules behind the probability of transitions between any two groups.
EndDryadContent
Appendix A
Review Report of RSOS-150215
This work proposes a Markovian language model for the DNA. The authors encode
nucleotide sequences into symbolic sequences and create a 2D symbolic map of the
E.coli genome, from which the authors establish the functional connectivity between
any two regions in this symbolic space, representing two groups of similar words, i.e.,
the likelihood of having a word belonging to a group being followed after some
nucleotides into another word that belongs to another group of words. The authors
construct a Markov network representation of the DNA, the nodes representing group
of words and their probabilities and the edges their transition probabilities, such that
the statistics of the transition between groups of words is approximately memoryless.
The model allows for a reduction in the complexity of the DNA. For the E. coli, it is
shown that a network of only 85 nodes (representing 85 group of words) contains
most of the information of its DNA, composed of more than 1 billion nucleotides. The
ideas in the paper are interesting and the theoretic results obtained have some
potential in applications. This paper can be accepted for publication after some
necessary changes: (1) The unique features of the approaches proposed and the main
advantages of the results over others have to be clearly commented, at least in the
simulation section; (2) Some remark words on the computation complexity of the
obtained results should be given. (3) Some future works should be proposed in the
conclusion section; (4) The notations used in the paper should be refined; 5) Please
give a short discussion if it is possible to extend the current results for the underlying
models with time-delay, parameter uncertainties and with deficient transition
probabilities, and for this issue, the following papers can be included to improve the
literature review: A new design of H-infinity filtering for continuous-time Markovian
jump systems with time-varying delay and partially accessible mode information,
Signal Processing, vol. 93, no. 9, pp. 2392-2407, Sep. 2013; New results on H-infinity
dynamic output feedback control for Markovian jump systems with time-varying
delay and deficient mode information, Optimal Control Applications and Methods,
vol. 35, no. 6, pp. 656-675, Nov. 2014; New approach to delay-dependent H-infinity
control for continuous-time Markovian jump systems with time-varying delay and
deficient transition descriptions, Journal of The Franklin Institute, vol. 352, no. 1, pp.
189-215, Jan. 2015; 6) The paper also has some typos and language issue which need
to be checked and corrected in the revision. Overall, the paper can be accepted for
publication after fully consideration of aforementioned issues.
ppendix B
view Report Reply (RSOS-150215)
viewer 1:
The unique features of the approaches proposed and the main advantages of the results over
ers have to be clearly commented, at least in simulation section.
s: We have rewritten the introduction, describing how DNA was characterised firstly by using
roaches from natural languages and later from complex systems. At the end of the introduction,
provide a comprehensive description of our model and approaches considered in this work and
pare it with previous works. We have also introduced paragraphs in each section, comparing the
n results of our approach with other works. See second paragraph is Sec. 3(a) (Determination of
rd length), third paragraph in Sec. 3(b) (Determination of grouping of words and the order of
tition) and Sec 4(a) first paragraph (Threshold network and associated measures). Moreover, we
e in this revised manuscript created the section (Sec.) “ The Markovian model of the DNA” to
cribe the main features of our model.
Some remark words on the computation complexity of the obtained results should be given.
s: Because the quantities considered to model the DNA are all small and finite, computational
t can be reduced. If the Markovian property is fully verified in the DNA, or at least in a piece of
he whole information of it can be stored in the matrix p (i<U+2228> j )f We have made a comment
ut this in the end of Sec. 3(c) (The Markovian model of the DNA). We have also mentioned
ut the dimensionality of the matrices involved to model the DNA, in this work, we have mostly
sidered matrices with a small dimensionality of 256x256, but in general they will have
ensionality of 4 2 f , where f is a small number representing the order of our partition.
Some future works should be proposed in the conclusion section.
s: Our Markov model can be used for studying the random and deterministic nature of the DNA
uences by using first Poincare recurrence, which has been briefly explained in the
plementary materials section Recurrence of the group of words in the DNA. We have
mented on that in the last paragraph of conclusions, and will be submitting shortly a paper
ut it elsewhere.
The notations used in the paper should be refined
s: We have rechecked all our notations and have made sure that they are not redundant. In
ition to that an appendix has been supplied in the Supplementary materials to help the reader
inguish the notations.
Please give a short discussion if it is possible to extend the current results for the underlying
dels with time-delays, parameter uncertainties and with deficient transition probabilities, and for
issue......
s: In the conclusions, we have added the following paragraph: We have shown that for the DNA,
approximate Markov partition can be constructed assuming equal-sized cells. Among all possible
s, we have shown that our approximate Markov partition exists when there are $4^L$ cells. Our
roach can be extended to other systems as long as a Markov partition is obtained. To construct
rkov partitions for systems presenting time-varying delays or partially accessible information
could consider the works in Refs. [42,43], or the work in Ref. [29] for stochastic systems, or the
rk in Ref. [44] for low-dimensional dynamical systems.
viewer 2
Starting from the introduction, the text consists of poorly connected sentences some of which
badly written themselves. Bits about the authors' model are introduced intermingled with a
ision of the state-of-the-art in the area without clearly framing any.
s: We have rewritten the introduction, describing how DNA was characterised firstly by using
roaches from natural languages and later from complex systems. At the end of the introduction,
provide a comprehensive description of our model and approaches considered in this work and
pare it with previous works. We have also introduced paragraphs in each section, comparing the
n results of our approach with other works. See second paragraph is Sec. 3(a) (Determination of
rd length), third paragraph in Sec. 3(b) (Determination of grouping of words and the order of
tition) and Sec 4(a) first paragraph (Threshold network and associated measures). Moreover, we
e in this revised manuscript created the section (Sec.) “ The Markovian model of the DNA” to
cribe the main features of our model. Finally we have minimised the intermingled style of
oduction by transferring discussion about literature to the end of the Introduction.
On a more methodological side, the validity of a Markov model to explain the structure of DNA
t least dubious. For instance, one would attempt to model human language as a Markov model
some structure would be captured but it's only in retrospective and because we understand
guage that we can appreciate the limitations of that approach.
s: Our model proposes the contrary. To avoid structures the Markov partitions obtained created a
bolic DNA with memoryless group of words. They all contain the same length, and a group of
rds maps to other groups in a memoryless fashion. The only structure remaining in our model is
probability of finding a particular group of words. Despite that there is a similarity between our
rk and other modelling natural languages, if our model would be used to model these natural
guages, we would have created a memoryless decorrelated grouping of words. This would not be
ropriate to understand a language whose main property is actually the structure.
The authors should make a rigorous cross-validation the model by training it on one database
the predicting the structure of another. Otherwise, it could be just an a consequence of over-
ng.
s: In the Supplementary materials, we have made an extensive cross validation of our model
sidering different organisms and their genes.
Additionally, there is little discussion of the statistical validity of the analysis. For instance, the
mation of MIR is normally affect by bias, but it's not discussed.
s: We have now made it clear that our informational quantities should be seen as an upper bound
he real values due to the finiteness of the partition, and this discussion can be seen in the last
agraph of Sec. 3(b).
Society Open
