Metal and polymer-mediated synthesis of porous crystalline
hydroxyapatite nanocomposites for environmental
remediation
Danushika C. Manatunga, Rohini M. de Silva, K. M. Nalin de Silva, Nuwan de Silva and
E. V. A. Premalal
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171557.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171557
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171557.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Suwan Jayasinghe)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a neat manuscript which should be accepted provided the minor typo errors are corrected.
The manuscript as a whole is excellent and would be a good read for the subscribers of RSOS.
Profesor Suwan N. Jayasinghe
BioPhysics Group
University College London
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Brian Melde)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors give a thorough report on a series of four precipitated calcium phosphate
hydroxyapatite materials, including Zn and Mg-doped products and a nanocomposite with
alginate. Materials were characterized by multiple techniques (XRD, FT-IR, EM, NMR, etc.) and
tested for uptake of an azo textile dye, Acid Yellow 220. Adsorption data were fitted to the
Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm models. The hydroxyapatite-alginate nanomposite in
particular was determined to have a good adsorption capacity ca. 213 mg/g for AY220.
The manuscript can be published after a minor revision addressing the points below:
Section 3.2: The claim in line 37 regarding FT-IR spectra is that “The respective peaks of M1 are
much sharper…” compared to neat hydroxyapatite. The peaks do not look much sharper; they
look very much the same. In fact, check to be sure that the same spectrum was not inserted in the
3
figure for the two products, or temper the statement.
Line 50: Regarding material “M5”: Assume this should be “M4”?
Section 3.4: Lines 15-16: “The peak near 0-0.33 ppm accounts for the apatite –OH group of HAp
and it is seen only in neat HAp and M4 with reduced intensity.” Why does it not appear in the
spectrum for M1? The crystallinity of M1’s powder XRD pattern and the discussion of OH bands
in its FT-IR spectrum suggest that apatite –OH should be present in microwave-treated M1.
Figure 9: Caption label e) “M5 compared with a standard neat HAp sample (f).” Again, assume
M5 should be M4. However, this gravimetric analysis trace is still confusing. What is the meaning
of “M4/M5 compared with standard neat HAp sample”? Is it the result of one thermal
decomposition curve subtracted from another?
Section 3.8: Lines 24-25: “Nevertheless, the sorption capacities obtained for systems M1, M2, M3,
and M4 in this study are much higher than those of most of the adsorbent materials that have
been commonly utilized for the removal of azo dyes…” This statement should be qualified better
or modified. If the authors wish to claim that it is much higher than those of other materials
studied specifically for adsorption of AY 220, this is probably true and can be stated so (there do
not appear to be many reports on AY 220). However, there are many new reports being
published regarding materials for remediation of azo dyes, some of which claim capacities ca.
1000 mg/g (Environ Sci Pollut Res 2017, 24, 15882; Journal of Cleaner Production 2017, 166, 360).
It is understood that some of these dyes are smaller than AY 220 and may actually adsorb to high
capacity in M4. Authors should at the least alter the claim to state that the materials compare well
to new products being reported and may prove to be good sorbents for other dyes. They may also
want to state if there are other advantages of the M1-M4 series, such as ease of synthesis and low
cost.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171557)
23-Nov-2017
Dear Dr De Silva:
Title: Metal and polymer mediated synthesis of porous crystalline hydroxyapatite
nanocomposites for environmental remediation
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171557
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statement alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without this end statement included, if you feel that the given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
4
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Dec-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor,
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 1223 432114
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Hazel Cox.
**********************************************
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a neat manuscript which should be accepted provided the minor typo errors are corrected.
The manuscript as a whole is excellent and would be a good read for the subscribers of RSOS.
Profesor Suwan N. Jayasinghe
BioPhysics Group
University College London
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors give a thorough report on a series of four precipitated calcium phosphate
hydroxyapatite materials, including Zn and Mg-doped products and a nanocomposite with
alginate. Materials were characterized by multiple techniques (XRD, FT-IR, EM, NMR, etc.) and
tested for uptake of an azo textile dye, Acid Yellow 220. Adsorption data were fitted to the
Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm models. The hydroxyapatite-alginate nanomposite in
particular was determined to have a good adsorption capacity ca. 213 mg/g for AY220.
The manuscript can be published after a minor revision addressing the points below:
Section 3.2: The claim in line 37 regarding FT-IR spectra is that “The respective peaks of M1 are
much sharper…” compared to neat hydroxyapatite. The peaks do not look much sharper; they
look very much the same. In fact, check to be sure that the same spectrum was not inserted in the
figure for the two products, or temper the statement.
6
Line 50: Regarding material “M5”: Assume this should be “M4”?
Section 3.4: Lines 15-16: “The peak near 0-0.33 ppm accounts for the apatite –OH group of HAp
and it is seen only in neat HAp and M4 with reduced intensity.” Why does it not appear in the
spectrum for M1? The crystallinity of M1’s powder XRD pattern and the discussion of OH bands
in its FT-IR spectrum suggest that apatite –OH should be present in microwave-treated M1.
Figure 9: Caption label e) “M5 compared with a standard neat HAp sample (f).” Again, assume
M5 should be M4. However, this gravimetric analysis trace is still confusing. What is the meaning
of “M4/M5 compared with standard neat HAp sample”? Is it the result of one thermal
decomposition curve subtracted from another?
Section 3.8: Lines 24-25: “Nevertheless, the sorption capacities obtained for systems M1, M2, M3,
and M4 in this study are much higher than those of most of the adsorbent materials that have
been commonly utilized for the removal of azo dyes…” This statement should be qualified better
or modified. If the authors wish to claim that it is much higher than those of other materials
studied specifically for adsorption of AY 220, this is probably true and can be stated so (there do
not appear to be many reports on AY 220). However, there are many new reports being
published regarding materials for remediation of azo dyes, some of which claim capacities ca.
1000 mg/g (Environ Sci Pollut Res 2017, 24, 15882; Journal of Cleaner Production 2017, 166, 360).
It is understood that some of these dyes are smaller than AY 220 and may actually adsorb to high
capacity in M4. Authors should at the least alter the claim to state that the materials compare well
to new products being reported and may prove to be good sorbents for other dyes. They may also
want to state if there are other advantages of the M1-M4 series, such as ease of synthesis and low
cost.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171557)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171557.R1)
15-Dec-2017
Dear Dr De Silva,
Title: Metal and polymer mediated synthesis of porous crystalline hydroxyapatite
nanocomposites for environmental remediation
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171557.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
7
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
James Moore
Publishing Editor, Journals
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Hazel Cox.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
pendix A
iewer 2
viewer comment Response Notes
ction 3.2: The claim in line Much clear FT-IR spectra are FT-IR spectra are given
regarding FT-IR spectra is here attached (Fig. 1) below
at “The respective peaks of It clearly shows that the peaks Corrections are done and
1 are much sharper…” at 3570 cm-1, 633 cm-1 and highlighted in Page 4 of the
mpared to neat 963 cm-1 are somewhat manuscript
droxyapatite. The peaks do sharper or intense than that of
t look much sharper; they the neat HAp. Especially the
ok very much the same. In 3570 cm-1 peak suggesting
ct, check to be sure that the higher crystallinity [1]
me spectrum was not Further, the two spectra are
serted in the figure for the not the same.
o products, or temper the However, we can remove that
tement. part, if it is hard to identify by
the image provided it can be
rearranged as follows;
In M1, distinct bands at 3570
cm-1, 633 cm-1 and 963 cm-
1, which correspond to the –
OH stretching, -OH bending,
and phosphate stretching
vibrations of the apatite
structure has appeared
[21,22].
ne 50: Regarding material Yes it is accepted and Corrections were done on all
5”: Assume this should be corrected as M4 the places where M5 was
4”? appeared. Therefore Fig. S9
was reformatted
Supplementary Materials -
Page 12
(Page 4, 8, 9, 14 and
Supplementary materials
Page 3, 6, 12, 13)
1
ction 3.4: Lines 15-16: From Fig.2., Fig.3 and Fig.4., HNMR spectra are given
he peak near 0-0.33 ppm it is clear that the sample M1 below as Fig. 2-4.
counts for the apatite –OH too has a peak at 0-0.33 ppm
oup of HAp and it is seen region of which the intensity Corrections done on Page 8
ly in neat HAp and M4 is not high as neat HAp and of the manuscript
th reduced intensity.” Why M4 when they are overlaid.
es it not appear in the Moreover, due to its
ectrum for M1? The increased crystallinity the
ystallinity of M1’s powder FWHM of this peak is lower
RD pattern and the than the neat HAp and M4
scussion of OH bands in its where it might have given to
-IR spectrum suggest that a small peak. So it should be
atite –OH should be corrected as follows;
esent in microwave-treated “The peak near 0 - 0.33 ppm
1. accounts for the apatite –OH
group of HAp [53] and it was
seen in neat HAp (with high
intensity) and in M1 and M4
with reduced intensity”.
gure 9: Caption label e) M5 was corrected as M4. The Corrections were done on
5 compared with a reason of comparing M1- M4 Page 9 of the manuscript
ndard neat HAp sample with neat HAp is to see the
.” Again, assume M5 pattern of weight loss which
ould be M4. However, this can be observed when there
avimetric analysis trace is are no additional polymers as
ll confusing. What is the observed with M4. The
eaning of “M4/M5 higher weight reduction
mpared with standard neat observed for M2 and M3 is
Ap sample”? Is it the result due to its porous nature
one thermal decomposition adsorbing lot of water. The
rve subtracted from decomposition pattern of
other? system M1 and neat HAp are
similar as M1 system neither
contains polymers nor metal
dopants.
evertheless, the sorption That comment is accepted and Correction was done on Page
pacities obtained for the statement will be modified 11. In addition four new
stems M1, M2, M3, and as “Nevertheless, the sorption references were added
4 in this study are much capacities obtained for
gher than those of most of systems M1, M2, M3, and M4
e adsorbent materials that in this study are much higher
ve been commonly utilized than those of most commonly
r the removal of azo utilized adsorbents for the
es…This statement should removal of Acid yellow 220
qualified better or [29, 68] highlighting its
odified. If the authors wish superiority as a novel
claim that it is much higher superabsorbent material for
an those of other materials the rapid removal of Acid
udied specifically for Yellow 220. Besides, these
sorption of AY 220, this is materials compare well to new
obably true and can be products being reported [69-
ted so (there do not appear 72] and may prove to be good
be many reports on AY sorbents for other dyes as
0). However, there are well. In addition, these
any new reports being adsorbent materials are
blished regarding materials associated with additional
r remediation of azo dyes, advantages such as the facile
me of which claim synthesis and low cost
pacities ca. 1000 mg/g avoiding the use of templates
nviron Sci Pollut Res 2017, and calcination to obtain
, 15882; Journal of Cleaner porous bodies”.
oduction 2017, 166, 360). It
understood that some of
ese dyes are smaller than
Y 220 and may actually
sorb to high capacity in
4. Authors should at the
ast alter the claim to state
at the materials compare
ell to new products being
ported and may prove to be
od sorbents for other dyes.
ey may also want to state if
ere are other advantages of
e M1-M4 series, such as
se of synthesis and low
st.
1. Section 3.2:
Fig. 1. Much clear FT-IR comparison of M1 with neat HAp
2.
. 2. 1HNMR spectrum of sample M1 showing the appearance of lattice –OH band at 0- 0.33
m (0.2378 ppm)
. 3. 1HNMR spectrum of neat HAp showing the appearance of lattice –OH band at 0- 0.33
m
.4. 1HNMR spectrum of M4 showing the appearance of lattice –OH band at 0- 0.33 ppm
3. Corresponding author name and mail address changed- Page 1
4. Fig. S9 was reformatted (Supplementary materials – Page 12
5. Ethical statement was included eventhough it is not relevant to our study- Page 11
erences
Pang YX, Bao X. 2003 Influence of temperature, ripening time and calcination on the
morphology and crystallinity of hydroxyapatite nanoparticles. J. Eur. Ceram. Soc. 23,
1697–1704. (doi:10.1016/S0955-2219(02)00413-2)
Society Open
