The ecological connectivity of whale shark aggregations in
the Indian Ocean: a photo-identification approach
Samantha Andrzejaczek, Jessica Meeuwig, David Rowat, Simon Pierce, Tim Davies,
Rebecca Fisher and Mark Meekan
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160455.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160455
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 June 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 October 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 October 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160455.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jesse Cochran)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is unclear if the photo records have been made available. Have the photos and I3S spot maps
been uploaded to a accessible database?
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper summarizes a large amount of data to asses the utility of a common method (photo-
ID) when applied to a specific problem (detecting regional or basin-scale migrations of marine
mega-fauna). The practical photo comparisons did not turn up anything new: the connection
between the Seychelles and Mozambique has been established prior, and the lack of any basin
scale migration is a negative result.
The novelty of the paper is found in the Monte Carlo simulation. In specific, the finding that
Photo-ID is unlikely to detect basin scale migrations, may help guide the experimental design of
photo-based studies toward answering regional scale questions.
This manuscript is concise and well-written. I can suggest only a few, minor revisions (see
attachment, Appendix A). Overall I think the paper is a useful contribution to the literature for
this species and for marine movement ecology in general.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Alex Hearn)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript attempts to take a wider look at whale shark movements, moving on from site-
based photo-ID and tagging to an ocean basin approach. My only comment is regarding the
discussion, in the paragraph around lines 330 onwards the authors talk about a particular portion
3
of the population and focus on juvenile males, yet unless the reader is already familiar with
previous whale shark research I could not find any mention of size structure prior to this. If
available, it would be useful to provide this information directly, or to reference it in the
manuscript.
I also wonder, if most of these sharks are only observed once a year, how much of this is to do
with sampling effort, and how much is it because there is a large mobile population out there?
How close are we to being able to estimate an overall population size for this region?
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Rafael de la Parra de la Parra)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear and adequate
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
If Christmas Island was not included in the statistical analisis, it shoud be mentioned in the
abstract, since you worked with 4 sites and used C. I. just as a reference spot.
It would be interesting to have at least an indication of the sampling effort, in order to determine
if high numbers (obtained on 2006), could be related to a major effort.
Did you manage to compare your results by looking for matching on the public library "wildbook
for whale sharks"?
The WS which moved from Seychelles (1996) was photgraphed there, before being tagged, and if
so you do have double the evidence of connectivity between Seychelles and Mozambique.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160455)
06-Oct-2016
Dear Colleagues
4
I am writing to inform you that the Subject Editor has made a decision on manuscript entitled
"The ecological connectivity of whale shark aggregations in the Indian Ocean – a photo-
identification approach" which you kindly considered for Royal Society Open Science. Please find
the decision letter below.
On behalf of Royal Society Open Science editorial board, I'd like to thank you for your help with
this article and we look forward to your input in the future.
Below is the text from the decision letter.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Text of the decision letter:
06-Oct-2016
Dear Miss Andrzejaczek
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160455 entitled
"The ecological connectivity of whale shark aggregations in the Indian Ocean – a photo-
identification approach" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject
to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160455
5
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 15-Oct-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
6
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper summarizes a large amount of data to asses the utility of a common method (photo-
ID) when applied to a specific problem (detecting regional or basin-scale migrations of marine
mega-fauna). The practical photo comparisons did not turn up anything new: the connection
between the Seychelles and Mozambique has been established prior, and the lack of any basin
scale migration is a negative result.
The novelty of the paper is found in the Monte Carlo simulation. In specific, the finding that
Photo-ID is unlikely to detect basin scale migrations, may help guide the experimental design of
photo-based studies toward answering regional scale questions.
This manuscript is concise and well-written. I can suggest only a few, minor revisions (see
attachment). Overall I think the paper is a useful contribution to the literature for this species and
for marine movement ecology in general.
Reviewer: 2
7
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript attempts to take a wider look at whale shark movements, moving on from site-
based photo-ID and tagging to an ocean basin approach. My only comment is regarding the
discussion, in the paragraph around lines 330 onwards the authors talk about a particular portion
of the population and focus on juvenile males, yet unless the reader is already familiar with
previous whale shark research I could not find any mention of size structure prior to this. If
available, it would be useful to provide this information directly, or to reference it in the
manuscript.
I also wonder, if most of these sharks are only observed once a year, how much of this is to do
with sampling effort, and how much is it because there is a large mobile population out there?
How close are we to being able to estimate an overall population size for this region?
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
If Christmas Island was not included in the statistical analisis, it shoud be mentioned in the
abstract, since you worked with 4 sites and used C. I. just as a reference spot.
It would be interesting to have at least an indication of the sampling effort, in order to determine
if high numbers (obtained on 2006), could be related to a major effort.
Did you manage to compare your results by looking for matching on the public library "wildbook
for whale sharks"?
The WS which moved from Seychelles (1996) was photgraphed there, before being tagged, and if
so you do have double the evidence of connectivity between Seychelles and Mozambique.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160455)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160455.R1)
18-Oct-2016
Dear Miss Andrzejaczek,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The ecological connectivity of whale
shark aggregations in the Indian Ocean – a photo-identification approach" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
8
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
se Cochran Reviewer Comments
es 49-51
ile these sharks spend the majority of their lives in the open ocean, they also form predictable
sonal aggregations on the coastal shelves of warm temperate and tropical regions worldwide in
tain locations.
s could use a citation, either to the various aggregation descriptions or to a suitable review.
es 223-224
oss sites, the distribution of sightings of individuals among years was very variable (Figure 2).
y variable is phonetically repetitive: “very very-able”. Consider “variable” or “highly variable” or
ried considerably.”
es 227-229
Mozambique, the largest proportion of sightings occurred in the first two of the six years sampled
05 and 2006) (Figure 2).
s is a bit uneven. Why not “occurred in 2005 and 2006”?
es 349-352
also possible that some juvenile males do not depart Ningaloo Reef and may instead maintain year-
nd residence, but are simply using deeper habitats in the seasons when they are assumed to be
ent.
ilar factors could also conceal basin-scale migrations. An animal moves from MZ to Ningaloo, never
faces close to shore, and returns to MZ, for instance.
es 366-368
ernatively, juvenile males may not be representative of the rest of the population and the long distance
vements of mature sharks may be responsible for the lack of genetic structure of populations across the
ian Ocean.
onatal dispersal is also possible. Neonates are thought to be pelagic and no one knows how long it
es for a newborn to grow to aggregation-size.
es 394-397
ional patterns of connectivity of whale shark aggregations suggests that 394 conservation and
nagement approaches should focus at this scale [45, 46]. Cross-jurisdictional management will be
uired, although to a much lesser degree and involving far less complexity than would be the case if cross-
an movements were commonplace.
those regional patterns of connectivity are biased toward conserving the adolescent males found at
st aggregation sites. Cross-ocean movements may be common for other demographics. Neonates may
perse from pelagic pupping grounds and mature sharks may travel long distances to breed. In either,
e purely regional management may be insufficient to conserve the species.
s bias is acknowledged later in the paper, but casual readers may not connect that discussion to this
ticular conclusion.
e 412-414
use of only one trained observer in image analysis further reduced the chances of a false negative by
imising the variation in subjectivity when fingerprinting images.
ree that this would limit the chances for a false negative, but could it increase the likelihood for a false
itive? That would not appear to be a problem for this particular study, but could it bias other studies
t chose to imitate this method?
Manuscript RSOS-160455: RESPONSES TO REFEREES
Reviewer: 1 (Jesse Cochran)
Lines 49-51: While these sharks spend the majority of their lives in the open ocean, they also form
predictable seasonal aggregations on the coastal shelves of warm temperate and tropical regions
worldwide in certain locations.
JC: This could use a citation, either to the various aggregation descriptions or to a suitable review.
Response: We have added a citation to a comprehensive review that describes the global
distribution of whale sharks in greater detail (Line 52, Sequeira et al. 2013).
Lines 223-224: Across sites, the distribution of sightings of individuals among years was very variable
(Figure 2).
JC: Very variable is phonetically repetitive: “very very-able”. Consider “variable” or “highly variable”
or “varied considerably.”
Response: Very variable has been changed to varied considerably (Line 223).
Lines 227-229: In Mozambique, the largest proportion of sightings occurred in the first two of the six
years sampled (2005 and 2006) (Figure 2).
JC: This is a bit uneven. Why not “occurred in 2005 and 2006”?
Response: Sentence has been changed as suggested (Line 226).
Lines 349-352: It is also possible that some juvenile males do not depart Ningaloo Reef and may
instead maintain year round residence, but are simply using deeper habitats in the seasons when
they are assumed to be absent.
JC: Similar factors could also conceal basin-scale migrations. An animal moves from MZ to Ningaloo,
never surfaces close to shore, and returns to MZ, for instance.
Response: This is a good point although there is currently no evidence for this behaviour. We have
added this possibility to the manuscript (lines 352-354).
Lines 366-368: Alternatively, juvenile males may not be representative of the rest of the population
and the long distance movements of mature sharks may be responsible for the lack of genetic
structure of populations across the Indian Ocean.
JC: Neonatal dispersal is also possible. Neonates are thought to be pelagic and no one knows how
long it takes for a newborn to grow to aggregation-size.
Response: Although seven of the Wolfson pups were caught by purse-seiners in pelagic waters, most
of the recent findings of neonates have been in coastal and shelf-edge habitats. The study of
aquarium-reared pups has allowed the documentation of approximate time from birth (60 cm) to
the size at which they join aggregations to (3.7 m) TL as being just over three years (see Rowat et al.
2007 Env. Bio. Fish). We do admit that it is possible that neonates may be responsible for the long
distance movement through ocean current dispersal, similar to turtle hatchlings, but we note that
despite this passive dispersal, turtles still form discrete stocks at small spatial scales and there is no
evidence for directed cross-ocean basin migration to other colonies. Thus, passive dispersal young
life history stages (eggs, small larvae) is not necessarily evidence for genetic connectivity. The larval
stages of corals and reef fishes are similar in this regard.
Lines 394-394: Regional patterns of connectivity of whale shark aggregations suggests that
conservation and management approaches should focus at this scale [45, 46]. Cross-jurisdictional
management will be required, although to a much lesser degree and involving far less complexity
JC: But those regional patterns of connectivity are biased toward conserving the adolescent males
found at most aggregation sites. Cross-ocean movements may be common for other demographics.
Neonates may disperse from pelagic pupping grounds and mature sharks may travel long distances
to breed. In either, case purely regional management may be insufficient to conserve the species.
This bias is acknowledged later in the paper, but casual readers may not connect that discussion to
this particular conclusion.
Response: We can only base patterns of connectivity on the data that we have; larger scale
movements may occur in other demographic components of the population (such as females, as
noted in aggregations off the Yucatan Peninsula), but have not been documented as yet in the Indian
Ocean region. Given that we can only manage what we know, regional approaches appear to be the
best way forward for the moment.
Additionally, the likelihood of pelagic pupping grounds is also very slim. The genetic study of whale
sharks pups (Schmidt et al. 2010, End. Sp. Research) suggests that mating is a single partner affair
and therefore unlikely to happen at mass-mating sites as in some species. It is more likely that
pupping occurs over several months and over many kilometers of shelf edge habitat, as indicated by
the developmental stratification of the embryos and newborns (Joung et al. 1996).
Lines 412-414: The use of only one trained observer in image analysis further reduced the chances of
a false negative by minimising the variation in subjectivity when fingerprinting images.
JC: I agree that this would limit the chances for a false negative, but could it increase the likelihood
for a false positive? That would not appear to be a problem for this particular study, but could it bias
other studies that chose to imitate this method?
Response: We agree - matches found were confirmed by secondary observers to reduce the
likelihood of a false positive (as many matches were found between years within regions). A line has
been added to the methods to indicate this (Line 142).
Reviewer: 2
1. My only comment is regarding the discussion, in the paragraph around lines 330 onwards the
authors talk about a particular portion of the population and focus on juvenile males, yet unless the
reader is already familiar with previous whale shark research I could not find any mention of size
structure prior to this. If available, it would be useful to provide this information directly, or to
reference it in the manuscript.
Response: We have added additional information to line 50 “While these sharks spend the majority
of their lives in the open ocean, they also form predictable seasonal aggregations of mostly juvenile
males on the coastal shelves of warm temperate and tropical regions worldwide in certain locations
(see Sequeira et al. (2013) for a review).”
2. I also wonder, if most of these sharks are only observed once a year, how much of this is to do
with sampling effort, and how much is it because there is a large mobile population out there? How
close are we to being able to estimate an overall population size for this region?
Response: Due to the different methods used to find and sample sharks in each region, sampling
effort is incomparable between sites. In terms of within-site sampling and observing the sharks once
a year, sightings appear to peak in the middle of the “whale shark season”. For example at Ningaloo,
spotter planes looking for whale sharks have the peak of sightings in April-May, and at the end of the
season (start of September), spotter planes continue to be used and tourism shifts to other species
(such as humpback whales) as whale shark sightings decline. Thus there is continued sampling effort
so a lack of sightings suggests a mobile population.
numbers are based on juvenile males, and the regional movements and open nature of populations
indicates that there are still a number of components for which we are missing information (adults,
small juveniles). The best means to estimate population size may be to use genetic techniques
(effective population size) for each aggregation site, but clearly, this is beyond the scope of the
present study.
Reviewer: 3
1. If Christmas Island was not included in the statistical analysis, it should be mentioned in the
abstract, since you worked with 4 sites and used C. I. just as a reference spot.
Response: The photos from Christmas Island were searched for matches with databases from other
sites (hence were included in initial analyses), but were not used for other comparisons.
2. It would be interesting to have at least an indication of the sampling effort, in order to determine
if high numbers (obtained on 2006), could be related to a major effort.
Response: As mentioned above, due to the different methods used for finding and sampling whale
sharks, levels of effort are incomparable among sites. Within-site effort data is available at least for
Ningaloo and the Seychelles, however it is outside the scope of this study to examine the factors
driving the variation in sighting frequency here.
3. Did you manage to compare your results by looking for matching on the public library "wildbook
for whale sharks"?
Response: We did not compare results with “Wildbook for whale sharks” as we were refused access
to this database. It is not an open access resource.
4. The WS which moved from Seychelles (1996) was photographed there, before being tagged, and if
so you do have double the evidence of connectivity between Seychelles and Mozambique.
Response: The 1996 whale shark was not photographed at either site to our knowledge. The
recognition came purely from the tag colour coding, yellow and pink for Seychelles sharks. We have
corrected line 300 in the manuscript to read “This is the second observation of movement between
these aggregation sites; the first was a shark tagged in the Seychelles in November 1996 that was re-
sighted 11 months later in Mozambique”.
Society Open
