Preparation of a low-cost and eco-friendly superabsorbent
composite based on wheat bran and laterite for potential
application in Chinese herbal medicine growth
Jiande Gao, Jin Liu, Hui Peng, Yaya Wang, Sha Cheng and Ziqiang Lei
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180007.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180007
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180007.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Marinos Pitsikalis)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
A novel superabsorbent composite based on wheat bran grafted with poly(acrylic acid) and
laterite, distributed within the polymer network is described in this manuscript. Several
experimental parameters affecting the properties of the composite are examined and specific
applications are mentioned as urea fertilizer carrier and in the growth of Chinese herb for
medicinal purposes. It is a very well written manuscript with a lot of experimental results. The
products are promising for several practical applications. From this point of view this work
deserves to be published in RSOS, since it will be beneficial and interesting to the readers. The
main drawback is that it is a, more or less, technical work without in depth analysis concerning
the structure of the produced composite. Parameters, such as the crosslinking density, the
molecular weight of the polymer between the crosslinks, the amount of linear poly(acrylic acid)
in the composite, the degree of grafting of the wheat bran, the possible presence of unreacted
wheat bran etc. are not fully discussed, although they are going to greatly affect the properties of
the composite. Therefore, I encourage the authors to provide more details on the structure of their
basic material.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this work, the authors prepared grafted wheat bran based superabsorbent composites. The
chemical structure, swelling behavior, thermal stability, and potential application in plant growth
were characterized and studied. Overall this article is well written. I have the following
comments for the authors to address.
3
1. In line 169, the authors should cite literature for the IR band assignment.
2. To prove the success of graft copolymerization, did the authors try use Soxhlet extraction to
make sure all the acrylics were well grafted?
3. For thermal stability analysis, there are too much weight loss in the low temperature range. The
authors could try to dry the materials in the vacuum oven at room temperature and then do the
thermal stability test.
4. It will help readers if the authors could provide some reaction scheme for the graft
copolymerization.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180007.R0)
13-Mar-2018
Dear Professor Lei:
Title: Preparation of a Low-cost Superabsorbent Composite for Potential Application in Chinese
Herbal Medicine Growth
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180007
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180007
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 22-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
5
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
6
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace.
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
A novel superabsorbent composite based on wheat bran grafted with poly(acrylic acid) and
laterite, distributed within the polymer network is described in this manuscript. Several
experimental parameters affecting the properties of the composite are examined and specific
applications are mentioned as urea fertilizer carrier and in the growth of Chinese herb for
medicinal purposes. It is a very well written manuscript with a lot of experimental results. The
products are promising for several practical applications. From this point of view this work
deserves to be published in RSOS, since it will be beneficial and interesting to the readers. The
main drawback is that it is a, more or less, technical work without in depth analysis concerning
the structure of the produced composite. Parameters, such as the crosslinking density, the
molecular weight of the polymer between the crosslinks, the amount of linear poly(acrylic acid)
in the composite, the degree of grafting of the wheat bran, the possible presence of unreacted
wheat bran etc. are not fully discussed, although they are going to greatly affect the properties of
the composite. Therefore, I encourage the authors to provide more details on the structure of their
basic material.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In this work, the authors prepared grafted wheat bran based superabsorbent composites. The
chemical structure, swelling behavior, thermal stability, and potential application in plant growth
were characterized and studied. Overall this article is well written. I have the following
comments for the authors to address.
1. In line 169, the authors should cite literature for the IR band assignment.
2. To prove the success of graft copolymerization, did the authors try use Soxhlet extraction to
make sure all the acrylics were well grafted?
3. For thermal stability analysis, there are too much weight loss in the low temperature range. The
authors could try to dry the materials in the vacuum oven at room temperature and then do the
thermal stability test.
4. It will help readers if the authors could provide some reaction scheme for the graft
copolymerization.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180007.R0)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180007.R1)
28-Mar-2018
Dear Professor Lei:
Title: Preparation of a Low-cost Superabsorbent Composite for Potential Application in Chinese
Herbal Medicine Growth
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180007.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_5
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Dear Editor:
We thank you very much for processing and giving us an opportunity to revise our
manuscript, entitled “Preparation of a Low-cost Superabsorbent Composite for
Potential Application in Chinese Herbal Medicine Growth”. (ID: RSOS-180007).
Certainly, we appreciate the reviewers very much for spending time to read our
manuscript and offering us constructive comments and suggestions. We have studied
reviewer’s comments carefully and have tried our best to revise our manuscript. Our
responses, in the manner of point to point, to the reviewers’ comments, are follows
their comments and suggestions, which marked in blue in the revised manuscript. Our
changes and response are presented in the following:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
A novel superabsorbent composite based on wheat bran grafted with poly(acrylic acid)
and laterite, distributed within the polymer network is described in this manuscript.
Several experimental parameters affecting the properties of the composite are
examined and specific applications are mentioned as urea fertilizer carrier and in the
growth of Chinese herb for medicinal purposes. It is a very well written manuscript
with a lot of experimental results. The products are promising for several practical
applications. From this point of view this work deserves to be published in RSOS,
since it will be beneficial and interesting to the readers. The main drawback is that it
is a, more or less, technical work without in depth analysis concerning the structure of
the produced composite. Parameters, such as the crosslinking density, the molecular
weight of the polymer between the crosslinks, the amount of linear poly(acrylic acid)
in the composite, the degree of grafting of the wheat bran, the possible presence of
unreacted wheat bran etc. are not fully discussed, although they are going to greatly
affect the properties of the composite. Therefore, I encourage the authors to provide
more details on the structure of their basic material.
Our response: Thank you very much for reviewers' comment. The basic material
including laterite and wheat bran have been discussed in detail and reported in our
previous work and cited the literature in present manuscript:
[25 in manuscript] J.D. Gao, Q. Yang, F.T. Ran, G.F. Ma and Z.Q. Lei, Appl. Clay Sci.,
2016, 132-133, 739–747.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
In this work, the authors prepared grafted wheat bran based superabsorbent
composites. The chemical structure, swelling behavior, thermal stability, and potential
application in plant growth were characterized and studied. Overall this article is well
written. I have the following comments for the authors to address.
1. In line 169, the authors should cite literature for the IR band assignment.
Our response: we appreciate the reviewer very much for offering us such
constructive suggestions. We have cited relevant literature for the IR band assignment,
ref. [29] in the manuscript.
2. To prove the success of graft copolymerization, did the authors try use Soxhlet
extraction to make sure all the acrylics were well grafted?
Our response: we appreciate the reviewer very much for offering us such
constructive suggestions. As far as we know, the graft copolymerization is usually
proved by simple and efficient traditional characterization methods, such as fourier
transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). In addition, we also cite the relevant
discussion results literatures in manuscript to further demonstration of our
experimental results. The relevant literatures are as follows:
[12 in manuscript] Y.A. Zheng, J.P. Zhang and A.Q. Wang, Chem. Eng. J., 2009, 155,
215–222.
[37 in manuscript] G.F. Ma, F.T. Ran, Q. Yang, E.K. Feng and Z.Q. Lei, RSC Adv.,
2015, 5, 53819–53828.
We are sorry that due to the limitations of the current experimental conditions and
time, we cannot use the method proposed by the reviewer to test present experiment.
We will focus on this method suggested by reviewers in our later work. We appreciate
the reviewer very much again for offering us the important and constructive
suggestions.
3. For thermal stability analysis, there are too much weight loss in the low
temperature range. The authors could try to dry the materials in the vacuum oven at
room temperature and then do the thermal stability test.
Our response: Thank you very much for reviewers' constructive suggestions. The
samples were dried in an oven at 60°C to constant weights and then milled before do
the thermal stability test in present manuscript. As the reviewers’ comment, the
vacuum drying is indeed also an effective method. And it is necessary to dry the
milled materials in the vacuum oven at room temperature and then do the thermal
stability test, which we will be used as one of the analytical methods in our later work.
4. It will help readers if the authors could provide some reaction scheme for the graft
copolymerization.
Our response: According to the reviewers' suggestions, we have provided the
reaction scheme for the graft copolymerization, as shown in the follow figure and in
Scheme 1 in Electronic Supporting Material.
Scheme s1. Proposed reaction mechanism for preparation of WB-g-PAA/LA.
We would like to express our great appreciation to Editors and Reviewers for
informing us that our manuscript will be accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Thank you very much for you kind consideration and looking forward to hearing
from you.
Yours sincerely,
Jiande Gao
College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,
Northwest Normal University, Lanzhou 730070, China
Corresponding author: Prof. Ziqiang Lei
E-mail: leizq@nwnu.edu.cn
Phone: +86 931-7971261
Society Open
