Transcriptional response of Hoxb genes to retinoid
signalling is regionally restricted along the neural tube
rostrocaudal axis
Nicoletta Carucci, Emanuele Cacci, Paola S. Nisi, Valerio Licursi, Yu-Lee Paul, Stefano
Biagioni, Rodolfo Negri, Peter J. Rugg-Gunn and Giuseppe Lupo
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160913.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160913
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 February 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 March 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160913.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this paper Carucci et al attempt to determine how different neural progenitors respond
differentially to the same extrinsic signals (retinoic acid). The motivation behind the study is to
understand how RA can drive context-specific effects on neural cells (both the timing and
position of a cell along the neuraxis will affect how it responds to RA). The authors are interested
in the molecular mechanism that explains how forebrain progenitors lose their competency to
become posteriorized by RA.
To answer this question, the authors use the in vitro culture of isolated neural stem cells
from13.5dpc mouse embryos. The use populations of neural stem cells from the anterior nervous
system and the hindbrain/spinal cord to assess the ability of different rostrocaudal neural
progenitors to induce Hoxb genes, which are well-characterised targets of RA during A-P
patterning. They examine Hoxb4-6 (characteristic of the posterior hindbrain/brachial spinal cord
region).
The authors demonstrate that although anterior and posterior neural stem cells respond to RA
signalling (based on a luciferase reporter), only the caudal cells induce HoxB genes. Likewise,
treatment with RA elevates the expression of these genes in caudal but not rostral cells. The
authors demonstate with ChIP analyses that rostral neural cells have a higher enrichment for the
repressive histone mark H3K27me3 at known HoxB enhancers, and other genomic regions
nearby, whereas caudal progenitors have a higher enrichment for activation marks H3K4me3 and
H3K9/14ac.
Major points:
As this is a study centred around Hox identity, it is important to better clarify the precise AP
positions used to derive rostral and caudal cell types from mouse embryos.
It is unclear what proportion of cells are responding to the RA treatment. Similarly, what
transfection efficiency was observed in this population-based assay?
It is unclear why gene expression analyses were conducted 24hrs after the time point at which RA
signalling was observed. A time course to examine when RA signalling is peaking in these cells
would have been useful to determine when to examine the readout of RA at the level of Hox
genes - particularly as the activation of different Hox genes depends on timing.
The induction of other Hox clusters should have been examined, to have a better understanding
of the AP identity of the cells with/without RA. It seems as though the neural cells being isolated
are brachial spinal cord and the treatment with RA is not altering their AP identity. Therefore,
even caudal progenitors are not changing their AP identity. Is that correct?
Histone marks that were assayed correlate with the fact that there are differences in gene
expression levels between rostral and caudal progenitors - they do not explain the differences.
The direct relevance of each genomic region examined is not fully explored. The authors should
be careful not to over-interpret the data. In particular the title implies causation not just
correlation. In addition, the last line of the Abstract, “These results suggest that the response of
NSPCs to morphogen signalling across the rostrocaudal axis of the neural tube is gated by the
epigenetic configuration of target patterning genes…” also implies causation.
.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I read this paper with interest. It provides support for the use of in vitro model systems to
potential mirror in vivo responses to RA and perhaps other signally pathways, and show
underlying chromatin marks consistent with those expression responses. Future experiments
exploiting these to determine mechanistic causes and consequences and confirmation of these
back to in vivo context will be important.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160913)
08-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Lupo,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Responsiveness of Hoxb genes to retinoid signalling is
epigenetically restricted along the neural tube rostrocaudal axis") have now received comments
from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and
Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the
Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 03-Mar-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160913
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Reviewer 1 has a few recommendations for ways in which this interesting manuscript can be
further strengthened. If the authors already have some of the data that the reviewer is referring to
in-hand, then it would clearly be desirable to include it in this manuscript. If such data is not
already available then I suggest that the text should be adjusted accordingly, to clarify the points
raised by the reviewer.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In this paper Carucci et al attempt to determine how different neural progenitors respond
differentially to the same extrinsic signals (retinoic acid). The motivation behind the study is to
understand how RA can drive context-specific effects on neural cells (both the timing and
position of a cell along the neuraxis will affect how it responds to RA). The authors are interested
in the molecular mechanism that explains how forebrain progenitors lose their competency to
become posteriorized by RA.
To answer this question, the authors use the in vitro culture of isolated neural stem cells
from13.5dpc mouse embryos. The use populations of neural stem cells from the anterior nervous
system and the hindbrain/spinal cord to assess the ability of different rostrocaudal neural
progenitors to induce Hoxb genes, which are well-characterised targets of RA during A-P
patterning. They examine Hoxb4-6 (characteristic of the posterior hindbrain/brachial spinal cord
region).
The authors demonstrate that although anterior and posterior neural stem cells respond to RA
signalling (based on a luciferase reporter), only the caudal cells induce HoxB genes. Likewise,
treatment with RA elevates the expression of these genes in caudal but not rostral cells. The
authors demonstate with ChIP analyses that rostral neural cells have a higher enrichment for the
repressive histone mark H3K27me3 at known HoxB enhancers, and other genomic regions
nearby, whereas caudal progenitors have a higher enrichment for activation marks H3K4me3 and
H3K9/14ac.
6
Major points:
As this is a study centred around Hox identity, it is important to better clarify the precise AP
positions used to derive rostral and caudal cell types from mouse embryos.
It is unclear what proportion of cells are responding to the RA treatment. Similarly, what
transfection efficiency was observed in this population-based assay?
It is unclear why gene expression analyses were conducted 24hrs after the time point at which RA
signalling was observed. A time course to examine when RA signalling is peaking in these cells
would have been useful to determine when to examine the readout of RA at the level of Hox
genes - particularly as the activation of different Hox genes depends on timing.
The induction of other Hox clusters should have been examined, to have a better understanding
of the AP identity of the cells with/without RA. It seems as though the neural cells being isolated
are brachial spinal cord and the treatment with RA is not altering their AP identity. Therefore,
even caudal progenitors are not changing their AP identity. Is that correct?
Histone marks that were assayed correlate with the fact that there are differences in gene
expression levels between rostral and caudal progenitors - they do not explain the differences.
The direct relevance of each genomic region examined is not fully explored. The authors should
be careful not to over-interpret the data. In particular the title implies causation not just
correlation. In addition, the last line of the Abstract, “These results suggest that the response of
NSPCs to morphogen signalling across the rostrocaudal axis of the neural tube is gated by the
epigenetic configuration of target patterning genes…” also implies causation.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
I read this paper with interest. It provides support for the use of in vitro model systems to
potential mirror in vivo responses to RA and perhaps other signally pathways, and show
underlying chromatin marks consistent with those expression responses. Future experiments
exploiting these to determine mechanistic causes and consequences and confirmation of these
back to in vivo context will be important.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160913)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160913.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
7
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The authors have adequately addressed the issues raised in the initial round of reviews.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160913.R1)
08-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Lupo,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Transcriptional response of Hoxb
genes to retinoid signalling is regionally restricted along the neural tube rostrocaudal axis" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
8
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
The authors have adequately addressed the issues raised in the initial round of reviews.
Associate Editor's comments:
Reviewer 1 has a few recommendations for ways in which this interesting
manuscript can be further strengthened. If the authors already have some of the
data that the reviewer is referring to in-hand, then it would clearly be desirable
to include it in this manuscript. If such data is not already available then I
suggest that the text should be adjusted accordingly, to clarify the points raised
by the reviewer.
We thank the Editor for the positive assessment of our manuscript. As suggested by
the Editor, we show in our response to the Reviewers' comments below some in-hand
data that are useful to address some of the issues raised by Reviewer 1. While these
results support the experimental work reported in the manuscript, they are based on a
more limited number of experimental replicates than the data reported in the Dryad
repository. For this reason, we would prefer not to include them in the published
dataset, unless requested by the Editor. In addition, we have revised the manuscript
text according to the Reviewer's suggestions.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
In this paper Carucci et al attempt to determine how different neural
progenitors respond differentially to the same extrinsic signals (retinoic acid).
The motivation behind the study is to understand how RA can drive context-
specific effects on neural cells (both the timing and position of a cell along the
neuraxis will affect how it responds to RA). The authors are interested in the
molecular mechanism that explains how forebrain progenitors lose their
competency to become posteriorized by RA.
To answer this question, the authors use the in vitro culture of isolated neural
stem cells from13.5dpc mouse embryos. The use populations of neural stem cells
from the anterior nervous system and the hindbrain/spinal cord to assess the
ability of different rostrocaudal neural progenitors to induce Hoxb genes, which
are well-characterised targets of RA during A-P patterning. They examine
Hoxb4-6 (characteristic of the posterior hindbrain/brachial spinal cord region).
The authors demonstrate that although anterior and posterior neural stem cells
respond to RA signalling (based on a luciferase reporter), only the caudal cells
induce HoxB genes. Likewise, treatment with RA elevates the expression of these
genes in caudal but not rostral cells. The authors demonstate with ChIP analyses
that rostral neural cells have a higher enrichment for the repressive histone
mark H3K27me3 at known HoxB enhancers, and other genomic regions nearby,
whereas caudal progenitors have a higher enrichment for activation marks
H3K4me3 and H3K9/14ac.
We thank the Reviewer for the careful and constructive review of our manuscript. We
provide below additional unpublished evidences in support of the experimental work
described in the manuscript. We have also revised the manuscript text and cited
additional literature to clarify the issues raised by the Reviewer.
Major points:
the precise AP positions used to derive rostral and caudal cell types from mouse
embryos.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) used for this work were already described in
previous publications [1]. Nonetheless, as requested by the Reviewer, we have added
a more detailed description of the derivation of rostral and caudal NSPCs in the
Materials and Methods section of this manuscript.
Briefly, rostral (cortex) NSPCs were derived from the dorsolateral wall of the
E13.5 telencephalon, corresponding to the developing cerebral cortex, excluding both
the hippocampus (medially) and the ganglionic eminences (ventrally). Caudal (spinal
cord) NSPCs were derived from E13.5 spinal cord tissue dissected between the
hindbrain/spinal cord boundary [2] and hindlimb buds.
It is unclear what proportion of cells are responding to the RA treatment.
Similarly, what transfection efficiency was observed in this population-based
assay?
We transfected NSPCs with Amaxa Nucleofector kits (http://www.lonza.com), which
provide high transfection efficiency. Previously published work performed in the
authors' labs report a transfection efficiency of approximately 80% in the NSPC
culture system used for this manuscript [3][4]. Therefore, data shown in Fig. 1
suggest that, when activation of a RA-responsive reporter is compared between rostral
and caudal NSPCs, mean activation levels measured across the majority of cultured
cells are similar in rostral and caudal samples. As pointed out by the reviewer, we
cannot rule out differences in the proportion of RA-responsive NSPCs in rostral and
caudal cultures, even though they show similar average responses when whole
populations are compared. We have added a sentence in the manuscript Discussion to
clarify this issue.
It is unclear why gene expression analyses were conducted 24hrs after the time
point at which RA signalling was observed. A time course to examine when RA
signalling is peaking in these cells would have been useful to determine when to
examine the readout of RA at the level of Hox genes - particularly as the
activation of different Hox genes depends on timing.
A recent study [5] has described a detailed time course of Hox gene upregulation by
exogenous RA in mouse embryonic stem cells differentiating to neuroectoderm. In
the case of Hoxb genes, peak expression levels were reached after 36 hours of
treatment, which is close to the 48 hours time window used in our assays. Although
we did not carry out a systematic analysis as that of De Kumar et al., we performed
pilot experiments indicating that the 48 hours time point is suitable to detect maximal
upregulation of our genes of interest.
For example, the charts below show real-time PCR quantification of the expression
levels of RA-inducible genes (Rarb and Dhrs3) in rostral NSPCs that were treated
with DMSO or RA for 32 or 48 hours. Data are normalized to expression levels in
E13.5 spinal cord (SC) tissue and represented as Log10 of this ratio. Rarb levels are
similar in the two treatment conditions, while Dhrs3 shows slightly increased
expression at the 48 hours time point.
Rarb
Expression levels Expression levels
1 0
0 -1
relative to SC (Log10) relative to SC (Log10)
-1 -2
-2 -3
h 32 h 48 h
32 32 48
h 48
32 h 48 h h h
M !M M !M M !M M !M
SO 1 SO 1 SO 1 SO 1
D R D R D R D R
A A A A
The following charts show the effects of prolonged (3-4 cell culture passages,
corresponding to approximately 10 days) RA treatments, in comparison with 48 hours
treatments, on the expression levels of RA-responsive genes (Rarb, Dhrs3, Cyp26a1)
and Hoxb genes in caudal NSPCs. RA pathway activation (as assessed based on the
expression levels of Rarb, Dhrs3 and Cyp26a1) does not noticeably increase during
treatments longer than 48 hours. Overall expression levels of Hoxb genes also remain
similar during prolonged treatments, although there might be a slight shift towards
more caudal Hoxb profiles (as suggested by a limited decrease of Hoxb4 RA/DMSO
ratio and a limited increase of Hoxb9 RA/DMSO ratio in the extended treatment
condition, in comparison with the 48 hours time point).
Dhrs3 Cyp26a1
Expression levels
Rarb
Expression levels
1 2
Expression levels
0.5
0 1
0.0
relative to SC (Log10)
-1
relative to SC (Log10)
0
relative to SC (Log10)
-0.5
-2 -1
-1.0
-3 -2
-1.5 h
48 D 48 h nM
h
48 0 nM M SO h 48 48
48 M nM R D M h
M D M SO h SO A 10
p3 MSO R SO
SO R 0 0 -p 4 0 A p3
A 10 p3 -p D 10 nM D 10 10 -p
D 10 0 4 0 nM 4
A nM R
A p3 A p3
R p3 -p -p 4 R -p
4 4
Hoxb4 Hoxb6 Hoxb9
Expression levels Expression levels Expression levels
0.2 -0.2 -0.6
0.0 -0.4 -0.8
relative to SC (Log10)
-0.2
relative to SC (Log10) relative to SC (Log10)
-0.6 -1.0
-0.4 -0.8 -1.2
-0.6 -1.0 -1.4
48 0 nM h nM h
D 48
h 48 48
D 48 48 M h
M D M h M h SO
SO SO MSO R SO MSO
nMR A p3
R A p3 0 A p3 0 10 -p
D 10 10 -p D 10 10 0 -p 4 D 10 0 4
0 nM 4 nM nM
A
R p3 R
A p3 R
A p3
-p 4 -p 4 -p 4
Altogether, these results suggest that maximal levels of RA pathway activation are
reached close to the 48 hours time point and that longer treatment conditions do not
lead to major changes in the expression profiles of Hoxb genes in comparison with 48
hours treatments.
In the case of the luciferase reporter assays shown in Fig.1A and 1D, we chose to
analyse the samples after 24 hours of RA treatment (corresponding to 48 hours post-
transfection), since expression levels of episomal plasmids in NSPCs peak 48 hours
after transfection and are likely to decline afterwards (www.lonza.com).
The induction of other Hox clusters should have been examined, to have a better
the neural cells being isolated are brachial spinal cord and the treatment with
RA is not altering their AP identity. Therefore, even caudal progenitors are not
changing their AP identity. Is that correct?
For this study, we have focused on the regulation of Hoxb genes, because, among Hox
clusters, they show the strongest response to retinoid signalling in the developing
mouse neural tube [6][7]. Furthermore, key RAREs mediating RA-dependent
regulation of these genes in the neural tube have been extensively characterised and
one of them (known as DE-RARE) is specific to the Hoxb cluster, explaining the
stronger response of Hoxb genes to RA in neural tube cells [6]. As suggested by the
Reviewer, expression of Hoxb4-9 genes in spinal cord NSPCs is consistent with a
brachial spinal cord identity [6][7], but we cannot exclude coexistence of more caudal
identities, since spinal cord fragments used for NSPC derivation included a broad
region extending to the level of hindlimb buds. While this work was mainly focused
on the comparison between rostral (cortex) and caudal (spinal cord) NSPCs, in future
studies it would be interesting to investigate whether NSPCs derived from different
levels of the posterior neural tube can maintain region-specific identities in vitro and
whether their positional identity can be modulated by RA or other morphogens.
As explained above, we chose to focus on Hoxb cluster due to its strong response
to retinoid signalling in neural tube cells in vivo. As a first step to compare the effects
of retinoid signalling on Hoxb genes with those on other Hox clusters in vitro, we
tested the expression of Hoxa4 in control and RA-treated caudal NSPCs. These data
are shown in the chart below, where Hoxa4 expression levels in NSPCs and in E13.5
spinal cord tissue are normalized to expression levels in E13.5 hindbrain (HB) tissue
(data are represented as Log10 of this ratio). In this analysis, it is interesting to see that
Hoxa4 expression levels are comparable in caudal NSPC cultures and in spinal cord
tissue, but in both cases they are clearly lower than the expression levels of this gene
in hindbrain (HB) tissue. Although Hoxa4 is significantly upregulated in RA-treated
NSPCs in comparison with DMSO-treated samples, the relative Hoxa4 increase is
nearly half of that displayed by Hoxb4 (Fig. 2D). These results suggest that spinal
cord identity is maintained in RA-treated caudal NSPCs, and that differences in RA-
responsiveness of distinct Hox clusters in neural tube cells in vivo might be
reproducible in NSPCs in vitro. In future work, it will be interesting to compare RA-
dependent responses of different Hox clusters in caudal NSPCs in more detail.
Hoxa4
Expression levels
0.0
-0.1
-0.9
-1.0
relative to HB (Log10)
-1.1
-1.2
-1.3
SO nM nM nM !M SC HB
M 1 10 0 1
D A 10 A
R A A R
R R
Histone marks that were assayed correlate with the fact that there are
differences in gene expression levels between rostral and caudal progenitors -
they do not explain the differences. The direct relevance of each genomic region
interpret the data. In particular the title implies causation not just correlation.
In addition, the last line of the Abstract, “These results suggest that the response
of NSPCs to morphogen signalling across the rostrocaudal axis of the neural
tube is gated by the epigenetic configuration of target patterning genes…” also
implies causation.
We agree with the Reviewer that our results suggest a correlation between the
epigenetic signatures of rostral and caudal NSPCs and their different responses to RA,
but they do not yet demonstrate a causative link. According to the Reviewer's
recommendation, we have modified the manuscript title and the manuscript text to
tone down speculations on the role played by the analysed histone marks in
controlling NSPC responsiveness to retinoid signalling.
Reviewer: 2
I read this paper with interest. It provides support for the use of in vitro model
systems to potential mirror in vivo responses to RA and perhaps other signally
pathways, and show underlying chromatin marks consistent with those
expression responses. Future experiments exploiting these to determine
mechanistic causes and consequences and confirmation of these back to in vivo
context will be important.
We thank the Reviewer for the positive evaluation of our manuscript. We hope that
this work will represent a useful reference for future functional studies investigating
the epigenetic mechanisms controlling maintenance of positional identities in NSPCs.
References
1. Soldati, C., Cacci, E., Biagioni, S., Carucci, N., Lupo, G., Perrone-Capano, C., Saggio, I.
& Augusti-Tocco, G. 2012 Restriction of neural precursor ability to respond to Nurr1 by
early regional specification. PLoS ONE 7, e51798. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0051798)
2. Fantin, A., Vieira, J. M., Plein, A., Maden, C. H. & Ruhrberg, C. 2013 The embryonic
mouse hindbrain as a qualitative and quantitative model for studying the molecular and
cellular mechanisms of angiogenesis. Nat Protoc 8, 418–429.
3. Sinno, M. et al. 2013 The matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor marimastat promotes neural
progenitor cell differentiation into neurons by gelatinase-independent TIMP-2-dependent
mechanisms. Stem Cells Dev. 22, 345–358. (doi:10.1089/scd.2012.0299)
4. Soldati, C. et al. 2015 RE1 silencing transcription factor/neuron-restrictive silencing factor
regulates expansion of adult mouse subventricular zone-derived neural stem/progenitor
cells in vitro. J. Neurosci. Res. (doi:10.1002/jnr.23572)
5. De Kumar, B. et al. 2015 Analysis of dynamic changes in retinoid-induced transcription
and epigenetic profiles of murine Hox clusters in ES cells. Genome Res. 25, 1229–1243.
(doi:10.1101/gr.184978.114)
6. Ahn, Y., Mullan, H. E. & Krumlauf, R. 2014 Long-range regulation by shared retinoic
acid response elements modulates dynamic expression of posterior Hoxb genes in CNS
development. Dev. Biol. 388, 134–144. (doi:10.1016/j.ydbio.2014.01.027)
7. Oosterveen, T., Niederreither, K., Dollé, P., Chambon, P., Meijlink, F. & Deschamps, J.
2003 Retinoids regulate the anterior expression boundaries of 5’ Hoxb genes in posterior
hindbrain. EMBO J. 22, 262–269. (doi:10.1093/emboj/cdg029)
Society Open
