Sex-biased avian host use by arbovirus vectors
Nathan D. Burkett-Cadena, Andrea M. Bingham, Thomas R. Unnasch
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140262.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140262
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140262.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lauren Cator)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, this data is supplied in the Electronic Supplementary Materials
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
I am very pleased to recommend this manuscript for acceptance to Royal Society Open Science.
This is a very nice piece of work incorporating both a newly developed method and field
collections. The authors are not able to say with complete certainty that the biases they observe in
blood meal sex-ratio are due to vector preference as they cannot accurately census the bird
populations to determine how close they are to 1:1. However, the data here make a strong case
that multiple vectors are preferentially feeding on male birds. I am fully convinced that this
method has the potential to be useful in both avian and other disease systems for determining the
role of vector preference in sex-biased infection ratios.
Lauren Cator
Imperial College London
Silwood Park, Ascot, UK
label_end_comment
Decision letter
22-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Burkett-Cadena
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140262 entitled
"Sex-biased avian host use by arbovirus vectors" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
Media summary uploaded.
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
Raw data uploaded to Dryad. Confirmation copied here: Thank you for your submission! Your
submission has been forwarded to the Dryad curation staff. Once curation staff have reviewed
your submission, you will receive a permanent DOI that can be used to cite the data package. You
will hear from us within two business days.
Data from: Sex-biased avian host use by arbovirus vectors
Data Files
RSBL-2014-0417_Tampa_FL_USA_Bird_sex_ESM
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Raw data formatted as instructed
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
