Diversification events and the effects of mass extinctions
on Crocodyliformes evolutionary history
Mario Bronzati, Felipe C. Montefeltro and Max C. Langer
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140385.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140385
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 5 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 28 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 1 May 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140385.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Philip Mannion)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Dear authors,
This is a useful contribution that augments our understanding of the evolutionary history of
Crocodyliformes, supporting the results of several previous studies via methods that have not
previously been applied to this taxonomic group. I have provided annotated comments on a PDF
of the MS, including correcting typos and grammatical recommendations, but also have a number
of more substantial comments. In general, the MS needs to more openly confront problems with
the data and methods, and I have summarised some key points below:
(1) More information on the data and, especially, the Methods would be welcome in the main
text. In particular, it would be good to describe what the nested-growth methodology does,
including problems with this approach. I realise that some of this is discussed in more detail in
the SOM, but I think the paper would be stronger if this was briefly outlined here too.
(2) The method used to determine diversification shifts clearly has problems with distinguishing
between speciation and extinction. Although this issue is touched upon in the SOM, this is only
brief, and the main text contains instances where the authors seem to have just had to choose
whether they believe that a shift pertains to one or the other (e.g. see the discussion of the results
of Alligatoroidea in the Paleocene versus Brevirostrines in the Miocene). This issue needs to be
more clearly raised in the Materials and Methods section.
(3) One issue that is not really addressed anywhere relates to biases in our sampling of the fossil
record. A time interval with excellent preservation is likely to result in a diversification shift
relative to the preceding interval, which might merely be a sampling artefact. In several places,
the fossil record appears to be taken at face value. For example, a diversification shift for
Notosuchia in the Aptian that corresponds to their first definite appearance in the fossil record is
recorded, but the sampling of earliest Cretaceous Gondwanan terrestrial deposits is extremely
limited, meaning that we cannot have much confidence that the Aptian really corresponds to
their radiation. Although it is not possible to fully deal with such issues in this kind of analysis, it
would improve the paper by outlining this problem and how it might affect the outcome of the
analyses. It would also be best to introduce this issue early on in the MS.
(4) There are quite a few papers dealing with aspects of crocodylomorph diversity that are
surprisingly uncited in this work, most notably Markwick (1998) and Martin et al. (2014). These
(and other papers that I have mentioned in the annotated PDF) should be incorporated into the
MS, both in the Introduction, but also when discussing your results, especially where your results
support/contradict this earlier work.
Best wishes,
Philip Mannion
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Hans Larsson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The ms is well written and presents a novel analysis of a Crocodyliformes supertree. The aim of
the work is to tally diversification rates over the 250 million years of this clade's history. Using
the supertree is a fine preliminary approach, although there are some dramatic alternative
hypotheses for Crocodyliformes phylogeny (position of Thallatosuchia, monophyly of
Sebecosuchia) that are not taken into consideration. I am unfamiliar with SymmeTREE, but
having a table of diversification rates and corresponding significance values (the P Delta 2 row in
the SymmeTREE output spreadsheet) for each node in the figured supertree would be
informative. This should be available since you used 10,000 simulations for each run. How
sensitive to sampling is this analysis? For instance, if 5% or 10% of all taxa were randomly
removed, would the results still hold?
There is some comparison/contrast to the diversification rates of Dinosauria. The discussion on
line 315 focuses on the Tr-Jr extinction as a trigger for crocodyliform diversification. Is there
evidence against this period not being a period of intense diversification as well for dinosaurs? A
slight expansion on this statement would serve the discussion/conclusion well.
line 29: remove "for".
line 72 + 73: change "Jurassic" and "Cretaceous" to "the Jurassic" and "the Cretaceous"
line 171: change "outgroups" to "outgroup"
line 191: what do you mean by "apical subgroups"?
line 224: change "notosuchians taxa" to "notosuchian taxa"
line 256: change "Alligatoroidea has Campanian First Appearance Datum's" to "Alligatoroidea
appeared first in the Campanian".
line 310: change "subgroups" to "subgroup"
Hans Larsson
4
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Stéphane Jouve)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Comments on the manuscript “Diversification events and the effects of mass extinctions
along Crocodyliformes evolutionary history”.
The paper analyses the evolution of the crocodyliform diversification thought time. It is
particularly interesting as it proposes to compare the evolution of this group with most of the
Mesozoic and Cenozoic events.
The paper is clear and the discussion well conducted. I have only few comments mainly focused
on the figure.
I am uncomfortable with the time location of the nodes of the tree. It is clearly exposed in the
figure caption, but it would be better to locate the node at their “right” (or supposed) places. It is
strange to see the cladogenesis between Alligatoroids and Crocodyloids during the Callovian…..
All along the text the authors cite various clades or node. Could they refer these cited
clades to the letter of the node in the figure? That would help to follow the discussion (eg.:
Goniopholididae (k, Fig. 1), Metriorhynchidae (i, Fig. 1)).
“Two other shifts identified only in time bin 2, one for Thalattosuchia...”: It is unclear for me how
a shift can be identified only in time bin 2 for Thalattosuchians, while another has been identified
for methriorhynchids in time bin 3…
S. Jouve
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140385)
17-Mar-2015
Dear Mr Bronzati Filho,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Diversification events and the effects of mass
extinctions along Crocodyliformes evolutionary history") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 09-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
6
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140385)
See Appendix A.
Decision Letter (RSOS-140385.R1)
20-Apr-2015
Dear Mr Bronzati:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140385.R1
entitled "Diversification events and the effects of mass extinctions on Crocodyliformes
evolutionary history" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
7
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 29-Apr-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
8
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
the authors should clarify in the text why they consider the Aptian record of the group as the
oldest, as the R1 comment: Line 224 of the PDF File: This is possibly incorrect - there's a putative
Berriasian occurrence from Brazil (see Carvalho et al. 2010).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140385.R1)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
Response to Referees
Manuscript: RSOS-140385.R1
Diversification events and the effects of mass extinctions on Crocodyliformes evolutionary
history
Text in blue corresponds to the original comments of the reviewers and the text in black our response
for each one of the comments.
Reviewer 1: Philip Mannion
All general comments of reviewer 1 were considered important and were incorporated on the
manuscript. Only one of the specific comments (provided on the PDF file) was not completely
accepted.
(1) More information on the data and, especially, the Methods would be welcome in the main text. In
particular, it would be good to describe what the nested-growth methodology does, including problems
with this approach. I realise that some of this is discussed in more detail in the SOM, but I think the
paper would be stronger if this was briefly outlined here too.
To make this section clearer and more detailed we divided the Materials & Methods in two sections.
The Phylogenetic framework encompasses an expanded version of the phylogenetic framework used
in the study providing more details on the supertree construction and how the phylogenetic position of
taxa was established. The Diversification analyses topic incorporates part of the Electronic
Supplementary Material to expand the topic as the reviewer suggested.
(2) The method used to determine diversification shifts clearly has problems with distinguishing
between speciation and extinction. Although this issue is touched upon in the SOM, this is only brief,
and the main text contains instances where the authors seem to have just had to choose whether they
believe that a shift pertains to one or the other (e.g. see the discussion of the results of Alligatoroidea in
the Paleocene versus Brevirostrines in the Miocene). This issue needs to be more clearly raised in the
Materials and Methods section.
The second part of the Material & Methods section, which deals with the diversification analyses, now
has a clear statement of how we proceeded in order to differentiate between shifts detected by
speciation and shifts detected by extinction of lineages.
(3) One issue that is not really addressed anywhere relates to biases in our sampling of the fossil
record. A time interval with excellent preservation is likely to result in a diversification shift relative to
the preceding interval, which might merely be a sampling artefact. In several places, the fossil record
appears to be taken at face value. For example, a diversification shift for Notosuchia in the Aptian that
corresponds to their first definite appearance in the fossil record is recorded, but the sampling of
earliest Cretaceous Gondwanan terrestrial deposits is extremely limited, meaning that we cannot have
much confidence that the Aptian really corresponds to their radiation. Although it is not possible to
fully deal with such issues in this kind of analysis, it would improve the paper by outlining this
problem and how it might affect the outcome of the analyses. It would also be best to introduce this
issue early on in the MS.
We added a section in the discussion about the bias of the fossil record (lines 197-208).
(4) There are quite a few papers dealing with aspects of crocodylomorph diversity that are surprisingly
uncited in this work, most notably Markwick (1998) and Martin et al. (2014). These (and other papers
that I have mentioned in the annotated PDF) should be incorporated into the MS, both in the
Introduction, but also when discussing your results, especially where your results support/contradict
this earlier work.
Both papers were cited in the context of previous contributions addressing the diversification of
Crocodyliformes. We also quoted such papers in the discussion section explaining how our results
support or contradict them.
Specific Comments from reviewer 1(PDF FILE)
All the typos pointed out by the reviewer were corrected and suggestions regarding the structure of
sentences were taken.
Line 78 of the PDF File: Should incorporate Carvalho et al. (2010) into this sentencse, as a paper
dealing with the distribution of Cretaceous terrestrial Crocodyliformes.
Reference included in the text.
Line 96 of the PDF File: None of these examples of diversity reconstruction include attempts to correct
for sampling via subsampling or modelling approaches, so you're not providing much evidence for
these "different approaches". There is a growing body of work applying such approaches to the
vertebrate record and there was a 2013 Palaeo-3 special issue entirely devoted to this topic:
We included more references for this statement as suggested.
Line 119 of the PDF File: How did you treat polytomies in your diversification analyses? (I can't find
any mention of this in the SOM either)
This is mentioned in the ESM:
“Another (latter) procedure was the pruning of some taxa in order to obtain a fully resolved topology.
This was conducted because some softwares cannot deal with not fully dichotomous trees; in this way, the
resulting topology used in this study can be used as a framework for different kinds of analyses. “
Line 224 of the PDF File: This is possibly incorrect - there's a putative Berriasian occurrence from Brazil (see
Carvalho et al. 2010).
We kept in our Manuscript that the oldest record for the group is Aptian in age. This supposedly Berriasian
occurrence is only mentioned in one published abstract and consists of a single femur. So far, there is no peer-
reviewed study, nor pictures of the material are available. In our understanding, pushing back the origin of
Notosuchia to the Berriasian based on such weak evidence could be misleading.
Line 232 of the PDF File: Before the end? What about notosuchians from the Maastrichtian of Madagascar (e.g.
Simosuchus), South America (e.g. Labidiosuchus), Pakistan (Pabwehsi [at least in some analyses]) and India (cf.
Simosuchus)? There's also the putative notosuchian Doratodon from the latest Cretaceous of Europe. That seems
like a clade surviving until the end-Cretaceous.
We rewrote the sentence in order to clarify this statement (lines 301-302).
Line 239 of the PDF File: But this is the group that includes extant crocodylians and new forms evolve throughout
this interval. All species go extinct eventually and so most taxa that were present in the Cenomanian-Santonian are
almost certainly extinct by the Maastrichtian.
We rewrote the sentence in order to make our point clearer (lines 307 – 313).
Line 250 of the PDF File: Should cite Brochu (2003) here regarding the timing of their appearance and radiation.
The reference is now included in the text (line 322).
Line 260 of the PDF File: Couldn't this Miocene shift pertain to the radiation of Crocodylus?
We expanded our discussion of this point to explain why the radiation of Crocodyloidea was not treated as a
diversification shift (lines 332 - 338).
Line 275 of the PDF File: I'm not quite sure what this sentence is trying to say: please reword it to clarify the point
that you are attempting to make.
We reworded the sentence (lines 350-354).
Reviewer 2: Stéphane Jouve
I am uncomfortable with the time location of the nodes of the tree. It is clearly exposed in the figure
caption, but it would be better to locate the node at their “right” (or supposed) places. It is strange to
see the cladogenesis between Alligatoroids and Crocodyloids during the Callovian…..
We adapted the figure and the cladogeneses are closer to the time supposedly corresponding to the
event. However, it is graphically impossible to place all cladogenetic events (e.g. cladogenetic events
related to Notosuchia node E – Figure 1 of the manuscript) in the same period of time without creating
a much larger, and unfeasible figure. Some cladogenetic events are still located in an interval probably
older than when it supposedly happened. However, such information is provided in the figure caption.
All along the text the authors cite various clades or node. Could they refer these cited clades to the
letter of the node in the figure? That would help to follow the discussion (eg.: Goniopholididae (k, Fig.
1), Metriorhynchidae (i, Fig. 1)).
We added the node labels along the results and discussion sections.
“Two other shifts identified only in time bin 2, one for Thalattosuchia...”: It is unclear for me how a
shift can be identified only in time bin 2 for Thalattosuchians, while another has been identified for
methriorhynchids in time bin 3…
This issue is related to the explanatory analysis we conducted for time bin 2. For this time bin we
change the position of Thalattosuchia in the tree in order to understand the impact of the group in
Crocodyliformes diversification when it appears on the fossil record. Because we haven’t performed
similar analyses for other time bins of our analyses, we now prefer to remove the shift detected for
Thalattosuchia from the figure, but this issue is still discussed on the manuscript.
Reviewer 3: Hans Larsson
Using the supertree is a fine preliminary approach, although there are some dramatic alternative
hypotheses for Crocodyliformes phylogeny (position of Thallatosuchia, monophyly of Sebecosuchia)
that are not taken into consideration.
We have now discussed this issue in the introductory part of the discussion section (lines 209-223).
I am unfamiliar with SymmeTREE, but having a table of diversification rates and corresponding
significance values (the P Delta 2 row in the SymmeTREE output spreadsheet) for each node in the
figured supertree would be informative. This should be available since you used 10,000 simulations for
each run.
This information is available in the Electronic Supplementary Material provided in the form of a “.xls
file”. Such file has the information for each node of the tree. We added a sentence in the Eletrocnic
Supplementary material stating that such information is available and how to proceed in order to check
it. However, we don’t think that type of information is relevant enough to be included in the figure
given that we provide it in the ESM.
How sensitive to sampling is this analysis? For instance, if 5% or 10% of all taxa were randomly
removed, would the results still hold?
This is an interesting point, however there is no analytical tool available for such test. For that, the first
step would be to generate, for example, 1000 distinct topologies by removing taxa randomly, but it is
not feasible to run 1000 distinct analyses in SymmeTREE and later analysing 1000 different
spreadsheets containing all the result.
There is some comparison/contrast to the diversification rates of Dinosauria. The discussion on line
315 focuses on the Tr-Jr extinction as a trigger for crocodyliform diversification. Is there evidence
against this period not being a period of intense diversification as well for dinosaurs? A slight
expansion on this statement would serve the discussion/conclusion well.
So far, studies on the diversification of dinosaurs (Lloyd et al. 2008; Brusatte et al. 2008; Benton et al.
2014) have found that the LateTriassic and Early Jurassic were crucial periods in the diversification of
dinosaurs. As discusses in our text (lines 362-369, the evidence for a diversification of
Crocodyliformes after the Triassic-Jurassic extinction (i.e. Early Jurassic) was mainly based on the
extension of ghost lineages of many subgroups of later periods. Toljagic & Butler (2013) was the first
methodological study to propose this as an important time in the radiation of the group, a result
corroborated here. In the reviewed version of the manuscript we slightly expanded this question in
order to clarify this point (lines 370-371 and 399 - 401).
Appendix B
Response to Decision Letter
Manuscript: RSOS-140385.R2
Diversification events and the effects of mass extinctions on Crocodyliformes evolutionary
history
Text in blue corresponds to the original comment of the editor and the text in black our response.
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The authors should clarify in the text why they consider the Aptian record of the group as the oldest, as
the R1 comment: Line 224 of the PDF File: This is possibly incorrect - there's a putative Berriasian
occurrence from Brazil (see Carvalho et al. 2010).
As mentioned in the Response to Referees, the supposedly (in Carvalho et al. 2010, the authors use a
‘?’ to indicate that the Notosuchia affinity of such material is doubtful) Berriasian notosuchian
occurrence is based on a single femur mentioned in an abstract (not peer-reviewed), without any
picture provided. In our understanding, there is not enough available information to sustain a more
extensive discussion on this issue and we await stronger evidence for such claim. However, we
modified the sentence and included the reference “Carvalho et al. (2010)” to illustrate that we are
aware of such claim.
Lines 287 – 292 of the manuscript:
“The Cretaceous high diversity of Crocodyliformes is mostly related to the terrestrial notosuchian.
Diversification shifts related to that group (Fig. 1 - node E) were identified from time bin 4 (Aptian-
Albian) onwards. This interval encompasses the Aptian, the oldest period in which notosuchians are
undoubtedly recognized in the fossil record - Malawisuchus mwakasyungutiensis [57] and Pakasuchus
kapilimai [58] (but see [13]).”
Society Open
