Ordinary differential equations and Boolean networks in
application to modelling of 6-mercaptopurine metabolism
Anastasia I. Lavrova, Eugene B. Postnikov, Andrey Yu. Zyubin and Svetlana V. Babak
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160872.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160872
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 February 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 March 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160872.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, all data can be easily obtained using the information in the manuscript.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript considers a particular example of metabolic modelling taken from the field,
which has both biophysical and clinical importance: one of pathways for cancer treatment
medication metabolism. This problem is used for a comparative analysis of a classical (ODE
based) and a new simplified (Boolean network based) approaches. The analysis resulted in a new
version of the Boolean network based approach proposed by the authors to overcome some
limitations of the approach. The modification of the approach relates to the concept of
probabilistic Boolean networks, which operates with several possible transfer functions
associated with network’s nodes. Here this choice is realised not in the “true probabilistic” sense
but as a kind of “microscopic deterministic hidden variables” transfer functions that can result in
the probabilistic transfer functions after coarse graining. I think that this idea provides promising
insight that can be used for coupling ODE and Boolean modelling.
However, the title of the paper should be corrected: “Random Boolean networks” should be
replaced by “Probabilistic Boolean Networks”; these two are different objects and the authors
considers probabilistic Boolean, not random Boolean scheme (although, the term in the main text
is correct). There are also errors in English, that has to be corrected.
As for the accuracy of assumptions and results, the formulated ODE model is based on the
reliable data taken from the literature, and the presented simulation results seem to confirm the
discussed experimental and clinical observations. The Boolean network constructed using the
proposed approach behaves similarly to the detailed ODE model that supports its validity. The
code provided in the text allows straightforward validation of the manuscript’s results by an
interested reader, which fulfils the requirement of the journal.
Thus, I believe that this work is interesting enough to be accepted for publications. It does not
need any major changes, but some corrections of English are required before publication.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file. (See Appendix A)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Doraiswami Ramkrishna)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The broad idea of having to include details of metabolism in pharmaco-kinetics is present in a
diffused way in this manuscript but poorly executed. (See Appendix B)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160872)
02-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Lavrova,
The editors assigned to your paper ("ODE and Random Boolean networks in application to
modelling of 6-mercaptopurine metabolism") have now received comments from 3 independent
reviewers. The reviewers raised a number of issues that will need to be addressed satisfactorily
before the paper may become suitable for publication.
Hence we would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee suggestions which
can be found below. Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 25-Feb-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
4
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160872
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
5
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript considers a particular example of metabolic modelling taken from the field,
which has both biophysical and clinical importance: one of pathways for cancer treatment
medication metabolism. This problem is used for a comparative analysis of a classical (ODE
based) and a new simplified (Boolean network based) approaches. The analysis resulted in a new
version of the Boolean network based approach proposed by the authors to overcome some
limitations of the approach. The modification of the approach relates to the concept of
probabilistic Boolean networks, which operates with several possible transfer functions
associated with network’s nodes. Here this choice is realised not in the “true probabilistic” sense
but as a kind of “microscopic deterministic hidden variables” transfer functions that can result in
the probabilistic transfer functions after coarse graining. I think that this idea provides promising
insight that can be used for coupling ODE and Boolean modelling.
However, the title of the paper should be corrected: “Random Boolean networks” should be
replaced by “Probabilistic Boolean Networks”; these two are different objects and the authors
considers probabilistic Boolean, not random Boolean scheme (although, the term in the main text
is correct). There are also errors in English, that has to be corrected.
As for the accuracy of assumptions and results, the formulated ODE model is based on the
reliable data taken from the literature, and the presented simulation results seem to confirm the
discussed experimental and clinical observations. The Boolean network constructed using the
proposed approach behaves similarly to the detailed ODE model that supports its validity. The
6
code provided in the text allows straightforward validation of the manuscript’s results by an
interested reader, which fulfils the requirement of the journal.
Thus, I believe that this work is interesting enough to be accepted for publications. It does not
need any major changes, but some corrections of English are required before publication.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The broad idea of having to include details of metabolism in pharmaco-kinetics is present in a
diffused way in this manuscript but poorly executed.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160872)
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160872.R1)
14-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Lavrova,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "ODE and Boolean networks in
application to modelling of 6-mercaptopurine metabolism" has now been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
7
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
authors present two mathematical models for the metabolism of
ercaptopurine including energy metabolism: an ordinary differential
ation (ODE) model and a Boolean network. They use the ODE model to
onstrate that the initial concentration of ATP acts as a control parameter
t decides on which pathway dominates. The Boolean network is constructed in
h a way that the transition rules depend on ATP, whereby ATP is modeled as
exponentially decreasing function.
ugh the authors nicely relate the simulation results to experimental
ervations and biological knowledge, their manuscript brings up a number of
stions and open problems that should be addressed before acceptance for
lication.
The title is misleading. The boolean network used for modeling is not a
dom network but a deterministic discrete dynamical system, where all
iables are boolean, except ATP which is multi-valued. Even if the authors
ld make the initial value ATP(0) a random variable, as they suggest, it
ld still remain a deterministic system.
For the ODE model it remains unclear how sensitive the results are with
pect to the chosen parameter values and initial conditions. Where do the
ues for parameters and initial conditions come from? Has the model been
idated with experimental data or literature knowledge? The plots in Fig. 2
uld be extended with TITP to better illustrate the shift between the
hways.
How does the boolean network relate to the ODE model? Why is the state
ce reduced from 10 species in the ODE model to 5 species in the discrete
el? How is this selection justified?
How do the simulation results for the discrete system depend on the decay
ameter kappa and on the values for alpha where the switching occurs
pha=0.5 and alpha=0.75). Is an exponential decay of ATP reasonable from a
logical point of view?
Are the states (0,1,1,0,0) and (0,0,0,0,0) the only attractors of the
crete systems? At which value of ATP(0) does the switching occur?
Several times the authors speak about an optimal concentration of ATP. How
this value been obtained (optimization procedure or simply testing a few
ues)?
The language should be checked carefully. There are several grammar
takes.
pendix B
iew
E and Random Boolean networks in application to modelling of 6-mercaptopurine
tabolism
s paper is concerned with modeling of 6MP metabolism in the treatment of leukemia towards
ermining the effect of the drug on efficacy versus side effects. They observe that efficacy and
e effects are governed by switching between different pathways in which the amount of ATP
an important role. They discuss two modeling approaches: The first, a kinetic model using
t order rate equations, and the second using a random Boolean network (RBN) that is a cure
the complexity of the first approach. They settle on a hybrid model that combines the kinetic
del with RBN in which a parameter a , associated with the latter is allowed to decrease
onentially. The implication of the authors is that their hybrid model makes up for the
rsimplification of RBN. While this claim is not without merit, it is not clear what the paper
ly accomplishes. This reviewer broadly empathizes with the argument that metabolic details
of importance in mathematical modeling of disease treatment but believes that the
piricism implicit in RBN makes it ineffective for this task. Perhaps this could be subject to
ate but there are several issues with this paper that need to be addressed if at all it could be
sidered for publication.
1. The model is applied to a case where initial ATP is specified. Where does ATP come
from? The implication appears to be that they are only examining the pathway in Figure 1
and do not worry about the subsuming pathway that accounts for ATP production.
2. The argument behind figure2 is that increasing the ATP concentration will result in the
competition between TGMP and TITP but none of the graph showed these
concentrations. Instead they showed TIMP and TXMP concentrations. Since the reactions
from TIMP to TITP and TXMP to TGMP are reversible, showing the plots for these two
reactants would have been useful.
3. Further, the conclusion is drawn based on just three ATP concentration which do not
seem to convey a pattern. It is mentioned that ATP=0.7 µM/ml is an optimal point where
there is more production of TGMP, a desired product, compared to TITP, a toxic product.
But in the graph there is only a difference of 0.05 µM/ml at the beginning and the
difference is reduced with increase in time. Also, in this figure the time axis range is not
same for all the three figures. Hence the author claim that ATP is a key major player is
not supported through the results of kinetic modeling.
4. The probabilistic Boolean network does not consider the reversible reaction from 6-MPin
to TIMP. The backward reaction is not considered which is otherwise considered for the
kinetic modeling case. For ATP as low as 0.2, the argument seems to support the fact that
for low ATP, both useful products, TGMP and toxic product, TITP are inactivated and
the process is arrested in the pathway between TIMP and TXMP but for high ATP like
0.8 and 0.9, both the products are activated in one or two iterations. The behavior is
random with respect to each iteration and cannot draw solid conclusions from here. The
boolean network result seems to confer more with their optimal ATP claims as ATP of
0.6 activates TGMP and not TITP but higher values activate both.
5. The code and the table 1 do not seem to be consistently following same rules.
6. The reaction scheme has been kept same for both approaches, however the two
approaches are not combined in strict sense. Only the value of a or ATP is decreasing
with time (but the assumption is not justified as to why it should decrease with time) and
hence the claim in abstract that combined Boolean-ODE method is proposed is not valid.
Adding a pathway catalyzed by TPMT to produce methyl-mercaptopurines would have
strengthened the claim that less useful product is produced at a lower value of ATP.
7. The kinetic rate constants are determined but it is not mentioned as to what and where the
data to determine these rate constants came from or are they arbitrarily assumed?
8. The alpha or ATP parameter threshold is arbitrarily assumed.
paper is also poorly written. The language needs considerable refining. This reviewer
ommends rejection without extensive revision and resubmission.
Appendix C
Dear Editor,
We thank Reviewers for their work and comments aimed to clarify the approach and results of our
work. All these comments are taken into account and answered. The text is revised to include additional
explanations, respectively. We rebut some of comments but, taking into account that these comments may
be induced by not very detailed explanation of the principal features of the Boolean networks approach, we
also expanded the corresponding part of our manuscript trying to highlight the specificity of such a modelling
approach. The list of additional references incorporated into the revised manuscript is also placed under the
list of answers.
Please find the detailed list of answers below (corresponding Reviewers questions are highlighted in blue
colour).
REVIEWER 1.
However, the title of the paper should be corrected: “Random Boolean networks” should be replaced
by “Probabilistic Boolean Networks”; these two are different objects and the authors considers probabilistic
Boolean, not random Boolean scheme (although, the term in the main text is correct).
We thank Reviewer 1 (and Reviewer 3, who noted the same) for this issue detected in the manuscript’s
title. We have corrected the title removing “random”; The statement of Boolean model in the main text is
supplied with a more accurate definition with respect to the classification of different Boolean systems (this
answer relates to the comments of Reviewer 3 too).
REVIEWER 2.
1. The model is applied to a case where initial ATP is specified. Where does ATP come from? The
implication appears to be that they are only examining the pathway in Figure 1 and do not worry about the
subsuming pathway that accounts for ATP production.
It is known that the classical way of ATP production in cells (in this case, in hepatocytes) occurs through
glycolysis, TCA cycle and oxidative phoshporylation in mitochondria [1, 2, 3]. The level of ATP drastically
decreases due to the cell necrosis that could be caused by the hypoglycemia accompanied by the loss of cell
ability to uptake glucose[4, 5, 6, 7]. Moreover, the ATP is consumed while transferring drugs through special
transporters [8], also it is involved into the synthesis of macromolecules, including DNA and RNA. Therefore,
the most general point of view requires to consider all possible pathways of ATP transformation, not only
it production, that is a serious and good challenge for the future modelling, but not the case of the present,
more concretized, work.
Within the frames of the present work, we show how we can simplify complex modelling and identify key
factors of the system administration of a particular example, on the base of experimental and clinical data. It
should be noted that we consider not necrotic cell, but pathological that means a constant ATP production;
for this aim we took initial concentrations (in order of magnitude) obtained in an experimental lab [9].
Corresponding additional explanations are added to sections “Introduction” and “Kinetic ODE model”.
2. The argument behind figure2 is that increasing the ATP concentration will result in the competition
between TGMP and TITP but none of the graph showed these concentrations. Instead they showed TIMP
and TXMP concentrations. Since the reactions from TIMP to TITP and TXMP to TGMP are reversible,
showing the plots for these two reactants would have been useful.
There is competition between TGMP and TITP, but the competition between different directions of the
pathways: leading to TIMP accumulation with the following TITP synthesis and to TGMP synthesis from
TXMP. Nevertheless, we have included plots for TITP (Section Results, Fig.2) to show that the concentration
of synthesized TITP changes in small range of values; it should be noted that is is multiplied by 102 to
plot all curves in Fig.2 in one scale of numbers. Therefore it would be more useful to concentrate on the
dynamics in the point of the pathways separation. Corresponding additional explanations are added to
sections “Simulation results”.
3. Further, the conclusion is drawn based on just three ATP concentration which do not seem to convey
a pattern. It is mentioned that ATP=0.7 µM/ml is an optimal point where there is more production of
TGMP, a desired product, compared to TITP, a toxic product. But in the graph there is only a difference
of 0.05 µM/ml at the beginning and the difference is reduced with increase in time. Also, in this figure the
time axis range is not same for all the three figures. Hence the author claim that ATP is a key major player
is not supported through the results of kinetic modelling.
It should be noted that is very important for oncology to operate with very small concentrations of
drugs and their metabolites [11, 12] and even very slight difference in concentrations can lead to different
results. A close look on Fig.2 shows that each metabolite (TXMP and TIMP) runs up to the maximum of
concentration in different times: the peak of high TXMP concentration corresponds to the decay in TIMP
dynamics. Moreover, TIMP dynamics looks like pulse that means fast up and down to small concentrations,
while the TXMP dynamics is much slower that leads to the switch of pathway and provides a cumulative
effort for producing the useful target product (TGMP). The concentration of TITP also drastically decreases
in comparison with the case when ATP=2 µM/ml. The axes range is not the same since to improve a
visibility of initial dynamics for large and medium ATP concentrations.
Corresponding additional explanations are added to sections “Simulation results”.
4. The probabilistic Boolean network does not consider the reversible reaction from 6-MPin to TIMP. The
backward reaction is not considered which is otherwise considered for the kinetic modeling case. For ATP
as low as 0.2, the argument seems to support the fact that for low ATP, both useful products, TGMP and
toxic product, TITP are inactivated and the process is arrested in the pathway between TIMP and TXMP
but for high ATP like 0.8 and 0.9, both the products are activated in one or two iterations. The behaviour
is random with respect to each iteration and cannot draw solid conclusions from here. The boolean network
result seems to confer more with their optimal ATP claims as ATP of 0.6 activates TGMP and not TITP
but higher values activate both.
The Boolean network actually considers unidirectional sequence of states. But this sequence satisfies the
behaviour, which is considered within the pure ODE kinetic model. Although the latter actually contains
reversible steps, the resulting sequence of maxima is ordered sequentially in time, i.e. correspond to the
unidirectional sequence of Boolean states.
It should be noted that the behaviour is NOT random with respect to each iteration since the presented
deterministic system can not produce any randomness. It behaves deterministically with respect to the rules
given in Table 1 and program code (see also the detailed step-by-step explanations in the answer to the next
question).
The claim “ATP of 0.6 activates TGMP and not TITP but higher values activate both” is demonstrably
supported by Table 2: the case AT P = 0.6 shows the state 1 for the node y4 (TGMP) and 0 for y5 (TITP);
for the cases AT P = 0.8 and a = 0.9 the both nodes y4 and y5 take value 1 during some steps of the network’s
states evolution. Moreover, Table 2 shows that y4 = 1 during two step, while y4 = 1 during only one step for
AT P = 0.8, that confirms the conclusion of a longer activation of TITP in the case of larger ATP (which is
also visible in plots of kinetic modelling, which are added to the manuscript).
5. The code and the table 1 do not seem to be consistently following same rules.
It would be easier to answer this comment if there were precisely mentioned what do not match. We
suggest that the consistency of the table rules and the code is not a question of seeming: we provided the
full open program code, which can be executed not only in MATLAB but also in free software OCTAVE,
which is available online without installation); thus, its consistency can be easily checked. As well, Table 2
explicitly provides all the states of Boolean variables, which confirms the action of rules too.
Nonetheless, we give below some step-by-step additional explanations, which demonstrate the consistency
mentioned.
Node Metabolite Rules of interactions and updating
y1 6MPin Starting node activated, when 6-mercaptopurine enters the cell.
It activates TIMP and then will be deactivated.
The code lines
y(:,1)=[1 0 0 0 0]’;
if y(1,j-1)==1;
y(2,j)=1;
end
realize activation of the node y2 at the next step numbered as j = 2. Since there is no any assignment to the
node y1 for j = 2, its value remain to be equal 0 for all next steps, i.e. the sentence “then will be deactivated”
fulfils.
Node Metabolite Rules of interactions and updating
y2 TIMP This node is activated by 6MPin or by TITP and can activate
nodes TXMP or TITP in dependence on a chosen pathway (the
choice is governed by the variable a); it is deactivated after this.
The code line if (y(2,j-1)==1)|(y(5,j-1)==1) realizes “This node is activated by 6MPin or by TITP”
and the next lines
if alpha<0.75
y(3,j)=y(2,j-1);
y(2,j)=y(5,j-1);
else
y(5,j)=1;
alpha=(1-kappa)*alpha;
end
realize the mentioned choice. It also corresponds (supplied with the line of code if alpha>0.5) to the row
of table
Node Metabolite Rules of interactions and updating
a ATP The continual parameter, which governs a choice of path-
ways by as follows: if a < 0.5, then the irreversible ac-
tivation TXMP<U+2192>TGMP is chosen; the reversible transition
TXMP TGMP holds otherwise; if a < 0.75 the pathway through
TXMP is chosen, the pathway through TITP holds otherwise.
The parameter a is non-stationary and satisfies the decay kinet-
ics a<U+0307> = -<U+03BA>a if the process goes through the TIMP pathway.
As for the deactivation, it is realized as it is commented above by the shift to the next column in the
matrix y. The same deactivation procedure acts in the consequent line of code
y(4,j)=y(3,j-1);
else
y(3,j)=y(2,j-1);
y(2,j)=1;
end;
The assignments here straightforwardly realize the table’s rows
Node Metabolite Rules of interactions and updating
y3 TXMP This node is activated by TIMP and can activate TGMP or TIMP
in dependence on a chosen pathway (the choice is governed by the
variable a); it is deactivated after this.
y4 TGMP This node indicate the target output, is activated by TXMP and
deactivated after the completed output.
y5 TITP This node is activated by TIMP within one of possible pathways
and activate TIMP; it is deactivated after this.
Note also that else relates to the conditional operator if alpha>0.5 and realizes the sentence “in
dependence on a chosen pathway (the choice is governed by the variable a)”.
6. The reaction scheme has been kept same for both approaches, however the two approaches are not
combined in strict sense. Only the value of a or ATP is decreasing with time (but the assumption is not
justified as to why it should decrease with time) and hence the claim in abstract that combined Boolean-ODE
method is proposed is not valid. Adding a pathway catalyzed by TPMT to produce methyl-mercaptopurine
would have strengthened the claim that less useful product is produced at a lower value of ATP.
Yes, the proposed approach does not combine the Boolean network with the full considered system of
kinetic ODEs. But it is not claimed by us at all, moreover, such a combination is not a goal of the work and,
in fact, such a full-scale combination would be unreasonable complication in principle. Let us highlight that
the main feature of Boolean networks is to drastically reduce complexity of modelling via the reduction of
state parameters to 0 and 1 values and the replacement of the detailed time course by a sequence of steps not
directly related to the actual continuance of dynamics but keeping a characteristic sequence of active/inactive
states. However, such an approach in strict sense does not allow taking into account some choice between
pathways governed by some criterion. As we mentioned in Introduction, this is why an extended approach
(probabilistic Boolean networks) exists. In our work, we operate within a similar approach, which introduces
one continual variable a (its dynamics satisfies the discretized ODE). Thus, our claim that our approach
combines ODE and Boolean network related namely to this a-network combination, which really combines
an ODE and a Boolean network.
As for the last sentence of this question, our principal goal is to consider the part of the complete
pathway, which is principally connected to TIMP-TIXP branching structure of the pathway. Namely due to
this branching, which can be controlled, it is new unexplored problem, how such a dynamical topology may
be simulated within an extended Boolean approach, and we solved this restricted problem.
Corresponding additional explanations are added to text.
7. The kinetic rate constants are determined but it is not mentioned as to what and where the data to
determine these rate constants came from or are they arbitrarily assumed?
In principle, each reaction of metabolite transformations is regulated by the enzyme for which are known
constants obtained vitro not only for humans but mostly for mice or bacteria (see a large data base brenda-
enzymes.org). We have modelled the kinetics of each enzyme in chain of 6-MP transformation: constants
(within a range of ones obtained from the database mentioned) and dynamics of enzymes are arranged in
such a way that if they all were reduced to a simple kinetic scheme, in general, changes in dynamics will
be minor and the concentration of each of the metabolites will vary within range that has been identified
during the consideration of the detailed dynamics. To get elementary constants from known Km , Kd , kcat et
ct. theoretically, is the speculative way with a large number of assumptions. This way also does not make a
sense since all known kinetic parameters are obtained vitro and does not reflect the real dynamics in a most
precise way.
Thus, we have chosen constants in such a way that the steady-state and peak concentrations of metabolites
vary in the range of identified earlier during the consideration of detailed dynamics of each enzyme. Also,
that is more essential, accordingly to experimental data [10, 11, 12], the increase of concentrations of some
measured metabolites in liver occurs in first 1-2 days with following long elimination of them from the tissue.
We also took this fact into account. Concerning the constants VP U R and VD , they were chosen arbitrary
because the first one points the flux of the purine synthesis inhibition consisting of a lot of stages and the
second one is the transformation of TGMP to TGN with following incorporation to DNA and RNA of cancer
cells. But our aim was not to describe all stages of process or detailed dynamics of enzymes but to consider
a general dynamics that could be governed by the small number of key players. Corresponding additional
explanations are added to section “Kinetic ODE model”.
8. The alpha or ATP parameter threshold is arbitrarily assumed.
First of all, we need to note that the Boolean network approach does not operate with exact concentrations
by its definition (as well as with the dimensional time too). Its principal feature is to reproduce a binarized
sequence of active/inactive states (they may be qualitatively associated with high(around a maximum)/low
concentrations in the case of metabolic pathways). Thus, since Boolean variables have the values 0 and 1
only, the exact accurate introduction of continuous variables during the modified approach would be have
a character of “mathematical over-accuracy” not supported by the method’s principle. The introduced
thresholds of a have goal to distinguish different pathways (within the common framework of probabilistic
Boolean networks). The chosen values satisfy this aim. In spite of this, we used the values, which relate to
the range of numbers of biological relevance for some kind of visual direction and comparison with results of
the ODE-based kinetic modelling (see also the answer to the question #6 of Reviewer 3).
Corresponding additional explanations are added to sections “A Boolean network mimicking the key
dynamical processes”.
REVIEWER 3
1. The title is misleading. The boolean network used for modelling is not a random network but a
deterministic discrete dynamical system, where all variables are boolean, except ATP which is multi-valued.
Even if the authors would make the initial value ATP(0) a random variable, as they suggest, it would still
remain a deterministic system.
We completely agree with this comment, the title is corrected, and comments are added into he texts (see
also the answer to the same comment of Reviewer 1).
2. For the ODE model it remains unclear how sensitive the results are with respect to the chosen parameter
values and initial conditions. Where do the values for parameters and initial conditions come from? Has
the model been validated with experimental data or literature knowledge? The plots in Fig. 2 should be
extended with TITP to better illustrate the shift between the pathways.
Yes, thank you for this question, because the problem of multistability and stability of stationary states
is a serious challenge of multi-dimensional system. Initial conditions, such as the concentrations of 6 - M Pex
and AT P , were obtained from experiment[9] and accordingly to the protocol BFM-ALL 2000 developed for
acute leukemia treatment. Concerning kinetic constants, as it was mentioned above (answer 7 to Reviewer
2), they were chosen respectively to the described enzyme dynamics of all metabolites transformations and
to the experimental data presented in [9, 10, 11, 12]. The multistability or unstable states have been not
found at the simulations of system in relevant range of parameters and initial conditions.
Corresponding additional explanations are added to text.
3. How does the boolean network relate to the ODE model? Why is the state space reduced from 10
species in the ODE model to 5 species in the discrete model? How is this selection justified?
The Boolean representation is based on two principal reasons: i) to keep the principal pathways of
the dynamics considered, and ii) to adjust the representation to the specificity of the switching networks
modelling.
In more details: the variable meTGMP relates to the direct further pathway from TGMP to out and is
not involved into the previous cascade, which is the principal object of study. For this reason it is omitted.
Practically the same is done with respect to the variable MPex : it states the initial influx only, which
irreversibly activates the node MPin and simply degrades after (see the first ODE in the kinetic scheme).
Thus, for simplicity of the network, we started from the node y1 , which can be activated or not and correspond
to the variable MPin with and without a sufficient influx, respectively (i.e. MPex is modelled by the initial
conditions).
All other variable are, in fact, kept, but some of them are used not as the modified Boolean network’s
nodes but as Boolean rules (it is specificity of such a mathematical construction); ATP is considered as a
continual variable a instead of being denoted as a node (all nodes y take the values 0 and 1 only); The
continual variables ADP and AMP are included into ATP dynamics and, therefore, not used in the rule for
a explicitly.
Thus, all three are replaced by the usage of the Boolean operator “if” and the command
alpha=(1-kappa)*alpha; See an addition discussion of this issue also in the answer to the next question.
Practically the same relates to the variable PP, which involved into the transiting TITP <U+2192> TIMP: since
Boolean variables have only two states but not the continual one, one does need to overcomplicate the network
by the additional node explicitly.
These comments are added into the text.
4. How do the simulation results for the discrete system depend on the decay parameter kappa and on
the values for alpha where the switching occurs (alpha=0.5 and alpha=0.75). Is an exponential decay of ATP
reasonable from a biological point of view?
Yes, the exponential decay is biochemically reasonable since it corresponds to the kinetics of the forms
d
AT P <U+2192> ADP + P , AT P <U+2192> AM P + 2P resulting in dt [AT P ] ~ -[AT P ] (see also the corresponding equation
in the detailed kinetic model) with the constant kinetic coefficient. The last assumption is reasonable for
Boolean network modelling because Boolean networks operate with two-values constant indicators of nodes
activity (0 or 1) instead of concentrations in contrast to the detailed ODE kinetics, where the terms like
k7 T IM P varies.
There are two target attractors in the Boolean network: the values of a determine the basins of attrac-
tion for these states. Their values are chosen semi-quantitatively since Boolean networks are quantitative
models in principle aimed to reveal interactions between compartments; they show sequence of states but not
quantitative concentrations. In spite of this, the chosen switching values are taken to correspond the range
of ATP concentrations considered within the full-scale kinetic ODE model.
The decay range <U+03BA> plays a conspicuous role in the case of a > 0.5 only, when it determines the delay in
time of the attractor’s approaching (measured in number of steps). However, since Boolean networks deal
with state-switching steps but not with actual physical time, an excess delay (like multiple repetitions of one
and the same state on the pathway, which does not lead to a locked state) is not significant for biophysical
interpretation; thus, the value of <U+03BA> is adjusted to highlight principal qualitative features of the model.
The clarification of these similarity and distinction between ODEs and Boolean network approaches is
added into the text as well as other clarifying comments are added into the appropriate section of the text.
5. Are the states (0,1,1,0,0) and (0,0,0,0,0) the only attractors of the discrete systems? At which value of
ATP(0) does the switching occur?
There are only two attractors (0,1,1,0,0) and (0,0,0,1,0) by the construction of the network, which is
principally constructed to simulate the choice of metabolic path by 6-Thioinosine-5’-monophosphate and
ATP concentration. With respect to ATP(0), the switching between these two attractors is defined by the
value ATP(0)=0.5 (a = 0, see the program code), all larger values of a result in longer way to the attractor
(0,0,0,1,0), as it shown in he last three matrices in Table 2. The state (0,0,0,0,0) is not attractor of the process
in a strict sense (this state can be considered as an attractor if and only if ATP(0)=0, i.e. the process does
not start). Thus, the last columns in matrices of Table 2 filled by zeros are added with the goal of formatting
of all matrices to the same size. In fact, the second process is fastest and reaches the target at j = 4, the
third – at j = 6, and the last at j = 7, which is the formatted length of all sub-tables (matrices).
To avoid such a possible misunderstanding of this table representation, we added comments into the
revised text.
6. Several times the authors speak about an optimal concentration of ATP. How has this value been
obtained (optimization procedure or simply testing a few values)?
By tracking of the time course of metabolites plots corresponding to different values of ATP concentration
taken with small step (certainly, the paper presents very few of them, which are most demonstrable for its
goals). Such a method has been chosen since the precise quantitative value of a target estimator is quite
uncertain for such a system and the visual exploration of plots, their peaks location and qualitative comparison
with experimental data, eg. [9], is more reasonable to avoid “mathematical over-accuracy” not supported by
medical data of the same accuracy.
The corresponding clarification is added into the text.
7. The language should be checked carefully. There are several grammar mistakes.
We tried to revise the language issues carefully and hope that the language is improved.
Sincerely yours,
authors
References
[1] Vanderkooi J. M. (2014). Your Inner Engine: An Introductory Course on Human
Metabolism.CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform.
[2] Traut T. W. (1994). Physiological concentrations of purines and pyrimidines. Molecular and Cellular
Biochemistry, 140, 1-22
[3] Rui L. (2014). Energy Metabolism in the Liver. Comprehensive Physiology, 4, 177-97
[4] Nishikawa T., Bellance N., Damm A., Bing H., Zhu Z., Handa K., Yovchev M. I., Sengal V., Moss T. J.,
Oertel M., Ram P., Pipinos I. I., Soto-Gutierrez A., Fox I. J., Nagrath, D. (2014). A switch in the source
of ATP production and a loss in capacity to perform glycolysis are hallmarks of hepatocyte failure in
advance liver disease. Journal of Hepatology, 60, 1203-11
[5] Leist M., et al. (1997). Intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) concentration: a switch in the decision
between apoptosis and necrosis. Journal of Experimental Medicine, 185, 1481-1486.
[6] Shneyvays V. et al. (2005). Role of adenosine A1 and A3 receptors in regulation of cardiomyocyte
homeostasis after mitochondrial respiratory chain injury. American Journal of Physiology-Heart and
Circulatory Physiology, 288, 2792-2801.
[7] Sabnis H. S., Bradley H.L., Tripathi S., Yu W., Tse W., Qu C., Bunting K. D. (2016). Synergistic
cell death in FLT3-ITD positive acute myeloid leukemia by combined treatment with metformin and
6-benzylthioinosine. Leukemia Research, 50, 132-40
[8] Sarcadi B., Homolya L., Szakacs G., Varadi A. (2006). Human Multidrug Resistance ABCB and ABCG
Transporters:Participation in a Chemoimmunity Defense System. Physiology Review, 86, 1179-1236
[9] Zyubin A., Lavrova A., Babak S., Malashchenko V., Borisova A., Opryshko N. (2016). Childhood lym-
phoblastic leukemia adverse drug reactions: study of risk factors and therapy prognosis by optical meth-
ods. SPIE Proceedings, 10024, 1002432-1002432-6
[10] Kurowski V., Iven H. (1991). Plasma concentrations and organ distribution of thiopurines after oral
application of azathioprine in mice. Cancer Chemotherapy Pharmacology, 28, 7-14.
[11] Innocenti F., Danesi R.,Bocci G., Fogli S., Di Paolo A., Del Tacca M. (1999). Metabolism of 6-
mercaptopurine in the erythrocytes, liver, and kidney of rats during multiple-dose regimens. Cancer
Chemotberapy Pharmacology, 43, 133-40.
[12] Lennard L. (1992) The clinical pharmacology of 6-mercaptopurine. European Journal of Clinical Phar-
macology, 43, 329-39
Society Open
