Evaluation of polybenzimidazole-based polymers for the
removal of uranium, thorium and palladium from aqueous
medium
V. Vijaya Kumar, C. Ramesh Kumar, A. Suresh, S. Jayalakshmi, U. Kamachi Mudali and
N. Sivaraman
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171701.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171701
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 May 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171701.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Comments on the “Synthesis and Evaluation of Polybenzimidazole based Polymers for the
Removal of Heavy Metal ions from Aqueous Medium” paper
1. The title should be more descriptive in relative to the target ions.
2. Synthesis and discussion of results should be discussed separately and clearly. In the synthesis
section, some results are discussed; and In the Results and discussion section, experiment
procedures are discussed but it should be discussed in the Experimental Section.
3. Did you synthesize or prepare the material? Synthesis and Preparation should not be taken as
synonyms in scientific work.
4. The synthesis or preparation section is too complex.
5. In the paper, the removal of … metals section should be discussed clearly with enough
evidence. The other part is not new. Results should be indicated clearly.
6. Adsorption and Sorption are used in the text as interchangeable but they should not be. The
authors should decide which process is appropriate for their work.
7. The last line in Page 10 “200 µg/mL in 0.1 N HNO3”,Make sure “N” or “M”, which one to
use.
8. Fig. 5 “Flow rate-0.5” change to “Flow rate: 0.5”. Why a and b changed concentration of HNO3
and column shape at the same? Please make up the experiment to show that the amount of U(VI)
adsorption is related to the shape of the column, or it is related to the amount of adsorbents.
Repeated experiments need to be done in columnar experiment.
9. Table 2C just has “UO2 (NO3)2/p-PBI”, what about others?
10. Please unify the units in the full text.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Kumar et al. report on the synthesis and evaluation of polybenzimidazole based ion exchangers,
suitable for the removal of U, Th and Pd from aqueous solution. The authors present a lot of data
both concerning the synthesis, the characterization and the application of this material.
The work is relevant, solid, performed carefully and reliable, and the results are convincing. It
can be recommended for publication after revision.
1. A description of the measurement method is missing. Only for U it is mentioned that UV-vis is
used.
2. Langmuir and Freundlich Models are discussed and applied. Section 3.3. contains partly
textbook knowledge, which could be shortened, but the plots should be shown. The last
paragraph of this section belongs more to the conclusion than to the model discussion.
3. The selection of what is shown in the paper and what in the supplementary material (ESM)
seems to be arbitrary and the reader gets quite confused. Moreover, not all 4 polymers are
studied in all applications. In the ESM, there are figures and Tables which are not addressed in
the text. This section and the ESM have to be rearranged. Maybe some of the plots can be merged
in one figure in order to shorten. And a short explanation is needed why not all polymers have
been studied in all experiments.
4. Just for curiosity: m- and p- PBI is synthesized using Pd as catalyst. Afterwards you study the
adsorption behavior of this element. How can you be sure that no Pd is remaining in the
substrate which is influencing your measurement?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171701.R0)
16-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Chidambaram:
Title: Synthesis and Evaluation of Polybenzimidazole based Polymers for the Removal of Heavy
Metal ions from Aqueous Medium
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171701
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11-Mar-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
William King MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432379
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Patricia
Hunt.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Ensure the issues of clarity and organisation within the manuscript are addressed. All relevant
experimental information should be supplied.
RSC Subject Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Comments on the “Synthesis and Evaluation of Polybenzimidazole based Polymers for the
Removal of Heavy Metal ions from Aqueous Medium” paper
1. The title should be more descriptive in relative to the target ions.
5
2. Synthesis and discussion of results should be discussed separately and clearly. In the synthesis
section, some results are discussed; and In the Results and discussion section, experiment
procedures are discussed but it should be discussed in the Experimental Section.
3. Did you synthesize or prepare the material? Synthesis and Preparation should not be taken as
synonyms in scientific work.
4. The synthesis or preparation section is too complex.
5. In the paper, the removal of … metals section should be discussed clearly with enough
evidence. The other part is not new. Results should be indicated clearly.
6. Adsorption and Sorption are used in the text as interchangeable but they should not be. The
authors should decide which process is appropriate for their work.
7. The last line in Page 10 “200 µg/mL in 0.1 N HNO3”,Make sure “N” or “M”, which one to
use.
8. Fig. 5 “Flow rate-0.5” change to “Flow rate: 0.5”. Why a and b changed concentration of HNO3
and column shape at the same? Please make up the experiment to show that the amount of U(VI)
adsorption is related to the shape of the column, or it is related to the amount of adsorbents.
Repeated experiments need to be done in columnar experiment.
9. Table 2C just has “UO2 (NO3)2/p-PBI”, what about others?
10. Please unify the units in the full text.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Kumar et al. report on the synthesis and evaluation of polybenzimidazole based ion exchangers,
suitable for the removal of U, Th and Pd from aqueous solution. The authors present a lot of data
both concerning the synthesis, the characterization and the application of this material.
The work is relevant, solid, performed carefully and reliable, and the results are convincing. It
can be recommended for publication after revision.
1. A description of the measurement method is missing. Only for U it is mentioned that UV-vis is
used.
2. Langmuir and Freundlich Models are discussed and applied. Section 3.3. contains partly
textbook knowledge, which could be shortened, but the plots should be shown. The last
paragraph of this section belongs more to the conclusion than to the model discussion.
3. The selection of what is shown in the paper and what in the supplementary material (ESM)
seems to be arbitrary and the reader gets quite confused. Moreover, not all 4 polymers are
studied in all applications. In the ESM, there are figures and Tables which are not addressed in
the text. This section and the ESM have to be rearranged. Maybe some of the plots can be merged
in one figure in order to shorten. And a short explanation is needed why not all polymers have
been studied in all experiments.
4. Just for curiosity: m- and p- PBI is synthesized using Pd as catalyst. Afterwards you study the
adsorption behavior of this element. How can you be sure that no Pd is remaining in the
substrate which is influencing your measurement?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171701.R0)
See Appendix A.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171701.R1)
11-May-2018
Dear Dr Chidambaram:
Title: Evaluation of Polybenzimidazole based Polymers for the Removal of Uranium, Thorium
and Palladium from Aqueous Medium
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171701.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the associate editor are included at the end of this email. When you submit your
proof corrections, please make the requested alterations and ensure that insets in Fig 4 are of
sufficient resolution.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Patricia
Hunt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
3.1.2 annealing in a nitrogen environment should be presented in preparation section, unless you
don't mean annealing and are simply referring to the the conditions under which the TGA was
performed, this should be made clear. Details of the insets in Fig 4 cannot be read, all text must
be readable at normal journal printing resolution on Figures.
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
pendix A
Reviewer’s Comment Our Response
Reviewer 1
e thank the reviewer for many useful suggestions and corrections. In our opinion this has
helped us to improve the quality of manuscript
The title should be moredescriptive As suggested by the reviewer, we have
in relative to the target ions? modified the title of the article. The revised
manuscript title as follows.
Evaluation of Polybenzimidazole based
Polymers for the Removal of Uranium,
Thorium and Palladium from Aqueous
Medium.
Synthesis and discussion of results We have modified the manuscript accordingly.
should be discussed separately and The synthesis details and discussion of results
clearly. In the synthesis section, some have been separated in the revised manuscript.
results are discussed; and In the
Results and discussion section,
experiment procedures are discussed
but it should be discussed in the
Experimental Section.
Did you synthesize or prepare the The m-PBI, p-PBI, Pyridine based-m-PBI and
material? Synthesis and Preparation Alkylated-m-PBI polymeric resins were
should not be taken as synonyms in “prepared” and employed for
scientific work. extraction/recovery of metal ions. The
manuscript has been modified accordingly.
The synthesis or preparation section The section dealing with preparation of
is too complex. polymers has been modified in the revised
manuscript. In the experimental section
synthesis of alkylated monomer has been
shifted to ESM Preparation 1 (Alkylated
monomer preparation).
In the paper, the removal of … metals Section 3.2 (revised manuscript 3.3) has been
section should be discussed clearly modified as reviewer suggested, i.e. Removal
with enough evidence. The other part of metal ions from aqueous medium. The
is not new. Results should be evidence towards loading and recovery of
indicated clearly. metal ions has been mentioned as
suggested.Results are added. Similarly in
section 3.3(revised manuscript 3.4)
discussion on adsorption isotherm model has
been condensed.
Adsorption and Sorption are used in We thank the reviewer for pointing out the
the text as interchangeable but they same. The revised manuscript has been
should not be. The authors should modified accordingly. Since, these metal ions
decide which process is appropriate e.g. UO2+2, Th+4 and Pd+2 diffuse into the pores
for their work. of the resin. e.g. p-PBI resin exchange with
“H” on N-H group (Benzimidazole N-H) or
coordinating through the tertiary “N” present
in the benzimidazole ring depending on the
acidity, “sorption” is the most appropriate
term.
The last line in Page 10 “200 µg/mL We have modified the manuscript accordingly.
in 0.1 N HNO3”,Make sure “N” or Acid concentration is mentionedas “Molar”
“M”, which one to use. throughout the text.
Fig. 5 “Flow rate-0.5” change to Fig. 5 captain has been modified accordingly.
“Flow rate: 0.5”. Why a and b We thank the reviewer for clarification sought
changed concentration of HNO3 and on break through profile done at different
column shape at the same? Please acidities,indicated as “a” and “b” in the
make up the experiment to show that profile. In these experiments, 6.5 g of resin
the amount of U(VI) adsorption is was packed in a column [6.5 cm height and
related to the shape of the column, or 1cm dia]. In the first experiment, Fig. 5 (a) 100
it is related to the amount of ppm solution of UO2+2 from an acidity (0.1 M
adsorbents. Repeated experiments nitric acid) was passed through the column at a
need to be done in columnar flow rate of 0.5 mL/min and 100% break
experiment. through profile was established.
In the second experiment Fig. 5 (b), 100 ppm
solution of UO2+2 (acidity 2 M nitric acid) was
passed through the column [ 6.5 g of resin, 6. 5
cm height and 1 cm dia] at a flow rate of 0.5
mL/min and 100% break through profile was
established. The difference in the
+2
sorptionprofile of UO2 is due to difference in
the sorption capacity at lower (0.1 M) and
higher (2 M) acidity. This is because, at lower
acidity, the UO2+2 is exchanged with N-H of p-
PBI whereas at 2M acidity, UO2+2 is
undergoing a solvation mechanism by
coordinating to tertiary “N” of the p-PBI resin.
Hence, the capacities are different at 0.1M and
2M for UO2+2 ion. This is also corroborated
with the capacity achieved (static capacity) for
UO2+2 at 0.1M (50 mg/g) and at 2M (15 mg/g).
These experiments were repeated at least three
times. We thank the reviewer for this
important suggestion and the revised
manuscript has been modified accordingly
(revised manuscript section 3.3.1).
Table 2C just has “UO2 (NO3)2/p- The data related to adsorption isotherm for
PBI”, what about others? Pd(II) as well as Th(IV) with p-PBI are added
along with UO2+2 in the revised manuscript
(Table 2C and Fig. 8).
Please unify the units in the full text. HNO3 concentration has been given as “molar”
throughout the text as suggested.
Reviewer 2
hank the reviewer for useful suggestions and corrections. In our opinion this has helped us
to improve the quality of manuscript
A description of the measurement The details about the assay of Th(IV) as well
method is missing. Only for U it is as Pd(II) have beenadded in the revised
mentioned that UV-vis is used. manuscript in the experimental section 2.7.
Langmuir and Freundlich Models are Section 3.3 (revised manuscript 3.4) has been
discussed and applied. Section 3.3. condensed as suggested by reviewer.
Contains partly textbook knowledge, The last paragraph has been shifted to
which could be shortened, but the conclusion section as suggested. We created a
plots should be shown. The last new section, Comparison of polymers in the
paragraph of this section belongs revised manuscript 3.5.
more to the conclusion than to the
model discussion.
The selection of what is shown in the (a) All the Figs and Tables in ESM are
paper and what in the supplementary quoted in the revised manuscript.
material (ESM) seems to be arbitrary (b) We have prepared four polymers
and the reader gets quite confused. namely, m-PBI, p-PBI, Pyridine based-
Moreover, not all 4 polymers are m-PBI and Alkylated-m-PBI. The m-
studied in all applications. In the PBI, p-PBI have been employed for
ESM, there are figures and Tables extraction. i.e, distribution data and
which are not addressed in the text. recovery of metal ions from aqueous
This section and the ESM have to be medium. Since, the capacity of p-PBI is
rearranged. Maybe some of the plots higher than m-PBI, the breakthrough
can be merged in one figure in order profile is given in main text and m-PBI
to shorten. And a short explanation is in ESM. The Pyridine based-m-PBI
needed why not all polymers have was prepared mainly to study the
been studied in all experiments. influence of additional “N” moiety
during the extraction of U(VI)/Th(IV).
The alkylated-m-PBI was prepared to
understand the influence of NH group
of the PBI polymeric resin having
sorption from lower acidity. Since the
capacity of p-PBI is higher than that of
other resins, the experiments on
breakthrough capacity were carried out
only with p-PBI (main text) and m-PBI
(ESM). We thank the reviewer for the
suggestion and the same has been
mentioned in revised manuscript
(Introduction section last paragraph).
Just for curiosity: m- and p- PBI is We have used palladium acetate (0.1 mol%, 12
synthesized using Pd as catalyst. mg) for homocoupling of 4-iodo-2-nitroaniline
Afterwards you study the adsorption in our second step of the monomer preparation.
behavior of this element. How can However, the coupling product (3,3’-Dinitro-
you be sure that no Pd is remaining in 4,4’-diaminobiphenyl) was several times
the substrate which is influencing washed with dichloromethane to remove the
your measurement? catalyst and as the catalyst is completely
soluble in dichloromethane. The absence of
Pd(II) in the final resin product was also
established by treating an aliquot with acidic
thiourea solution. The eluate was monitored
for any palladium by measuring the
absorbance of Pd-Thiourea complex at 317 nm
using UV-Visible spectrophotometer. These
studies have been established absence of Pd(II)
in the final product.
Society Open
