Responses to auxin signals: an operating principle for
dynamical sensitivity yet high resilience
S. Grigolon, B. Bravi and O.C. Martin
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172098.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172098
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Final acceptance: 8 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172098)
08-Dec-2017
Dear Ms Grigolon,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172098 entitled
"Responses to auxin signals: an operating principle for dynamical sensitivity yet high resilience"
has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
We have discussed your response to reviewers with the Publishing Editor at J.R.Soc. Interface but
it was felt that your manuscript lacked the novelty required for publication in Interface.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
