Symbiotic bacteria enable olive fly larvae to overcome host
defences
Michael Ben-Yosef, Zohar Pasternak, Edouard Jurkevitch and Boaz Yuval
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150170.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150170
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 June 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 29 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150170.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Anne Estes)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I have commented what additional data I feel like needs to be provided. Primarily it is the MiSeq
data. Specifics are in my attached comments.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attached file (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a nicely written and interesting paper examining an obligate symbiosis between tephritid
olive flies and an uncultivable strain of Erwinia. Olive flies are unusual for tephritids in their
ability to develop in unripe (and chemically well-defended) olives. The authors examine the
effect of antibiotic treatment on fly development and find that symbionts are essential in unripe
(but not ripe) fruits. They suggest that this is due to the presence of oleuropein, a phenolic
glycoside, in unripe fruits, that inhibits herbivory by cross-linking proteins, although definitive
evidence linking oleuropein and Erwinia is missing (this is constrained by the difficulty in
working with uncultivable bacteria). This paper will be of interest to symbiosis researchers (an
active and growing field).
- The authors could be a bit more explicit and clear about their working hypotheses on how
Erwinia is supplementing nutrition, as well as how to potentially test these hypotheses in future
experiments. Is there no lysine or is it unavailable? Is Erwinia providing lysine, or freeing the
unavailable lysine? Can asymbiotic flies develop in unripe olives that have been supplemented
with lysine? Can asymbiotic flies develop in unripe olives that have been supplemented with
glycine to inhibit oleuropein?
- I would remove ‘the greening of olives’ from the title – it doesn’t fit.
- The methods in the main body of the text are confusing because it is not clear where the flies
that are not ‘lab-reared’ come from, especially since some of them are treated with antibiotics (so
something is happening in the lab!). It all becomes much clearer when I read the supplemental
methods, but it would help a great deal if the main methods were clarified. (Also, is it possible to
continuously rear flies in the lab? And do they lose Erwinia if they are continuously reared on
ripe fruits?)
3
- line 170: how do you know that [only] oleuropein is responsible for the cross-linking?
- Are the olive varieties known to differ in oleuropein concentration? More information about
oleuropein would be useful (e.g. How do concentrations change over the age of the fruit? What
other secondary metabolites compounds are present and important in the olive?)
- line 321: I don’t see that the smear in lane 8 is in the expected position.
- line 389: ‘pervious’ to ‘previous’
- lines 410-412: I don’t agree with (or understand) this sentence.
- line 506: sentence starting with ‘The peculiar…’ is awkwardly worded.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150170)
02-Jun-2015
Dear Mr Ben-Yosef,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("The greening of olives: Symbiotic bacteria enable
olive fly larvae to overcome host defenses") has now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 25-Jun-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
4
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150170)
See Appendix B.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-150170.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Anne Estes)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Thank you for responding to my comments so thoroughly. Best of luck with your continued
excellent work on this system.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
*Filled in by ed office**
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
N/A
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150170.R1)
29-Jun-2015
Dear Mr Ben-Yosef,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Symbiotic bacteria enable olive fly
larvae to overcome host defenses" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
manuscript “The greening of olives: Symbiotic bacteria enable olive fly larvae to overcome host
enses” by Ben-Yosef et al. is an excellent piece of work that adds significantly to our understanding of
olive fly-Erwinia dacicola symbiosis specifically and insect-bacterial interactions in general. Overall,
work is solid and the data are interesting. However, there were a few issues where more
rmation is necessary to understand what was done. In particular, information is lacking about the
ails and reads sequenced for the 16S rRNA community analysis.
How were the MiSeq libraries constructed?
How many samples were run? What was the read depth per sample (prior to subsampling).
Were reads quality trimmed and checked for chimeras?
Was the amplicon used for the Mothur analysis generated from the forward and reverse primers
stitched together or only the forward read?
A rarefaction figure to demonstrate sampling depth was sufficient to capture the diversity present
should be a supplemental figure.
Put the MG-RAST deposition number in the body of the text with a list of what was deposited.
Was the MiSeq amplicon that was analyzed generated from the forward and reverse primers stitched
together or only the forward read? Was it quality trimmed?
Compare the V4 amplicon that was identified as Pantoea to the Enterobacter sp. that Estes et al
2009 cultured and isolated (such as NCBI accession:GQ478383.1). The taxonomy of Pantoea and
Enterobacter is not well worked out and the specific identity might be difficult to ascertain with only
300 bp. However, it would be beneficial to the olive fly community to know if the same culturable
bacteria is found at low levels in some individuals of geographically isolated populations, especially
since this bacterium can be cultured and could be used for supplementing mass rearing.
the larval survival experiments:
The weight difference between symbiotic and aposymbiotic reared in ripe olives looks similar to the
difference in pupal weight between unripe and ripe. Is this difference statistically significant? How do
you explain this difference, if so?
Where are the statistical tables comparing the mass-reared animal data to the wild animals in the
supplemental files? What is the statistical justification for why the data were pooled between sexes?
ummary, this is an excellent manuscript with important findings, but these concerns need to be
ressed prior to publication.
re detailed line-by-line comments are below:
10: Add a comma after “ontogeny”
s 29-31: This sentence is awkward and should be split into 2 sentences.
32: comma between “bacteria” and “and” – these are 3 separate items in a list.
36: change to: “…ripe fruit, fly development…” or larval development
40: comma after bacteria – see line 32 comments above
s 30 and 40: to make your writing the most clear, I wouldn’t use the term “host” at all, since host
ld be either insect or plant. I realize that you are defining “host” as the olive, but I would fear that a
der might become unnecessarily confused. It’s clearer to use fly, olive, bacteria.
80: Enterobacter was also found occasionally in Estes et al 2009, which might be what you are
ing, but calling "Pantoea" based on a shorter sequence. This bacterium could be cultured. Also
chetti et al. 2008.
82: “olive flies predominantly utilize” – They prefer unripe olives, but will use ripe olives. Late in the
son when there are only ripe olives, flies will be predominantly using ripe olives because unripe
es are not present.
103: “fly development”
103-104: Do you mean fly development occurred in the presence of antibiotics when larvae were in
fruit? If so, clarify this to your reader.
118: I wonder if you do not also want to include a sentence stating that this work continues to build
your and other’s research supporting the hypothesis that the olive fly microbiome is beneficial to the
118 and throughout the manuscript: you use the term “symbiotic”, but this manuscript and other
lications from the same laboratory are showing support for the olive fly –Erwinia association to be
tualistic or beneficial and should be stated as such. Symbiosis was used previously when we did not
e good experimental evidence of benefit or detriment in this association. Thankfully, your
erimental data changes this.
126-127: what unit did you measure to in order to determine differences between the number of
s? Were olives weighed before oviposition as well to help determine number of eggs? Or did you
nt oviposition marks?
plemental methods:
uld be 16S rRNA instead of 16s rRNA
e details need to be given on the MiSeq sequencing.
w were the MiSeq libraries constructed?
w many samples were run? What was the read depth per sample (prior to subsampling).
re reads quality trimmed and checked for chimeras?
as the amplicon used for the Mothur analysis generated from the forward and reverse primers
hed together or only the forward read?
data (trimmed reads, rarefaction figures to show that sampling depth was sufficient to capture the
rsity present, beta diversity analyses) should also be provided in supplemental figures and deposited
public resource with the citation in the manuscript. In your references, you have an MG-RAST link,
it is not in the body of your text.
278: How long was development of aposymbiotic larvae?
280: Are the data presented in Fig 2 pooled from both olive varieties?
re 2a and 2b: the symbiotic pupal weight looks significantly different between unripe and ripe olives.
statistics should be done on this. Were there differences in resources (weight of olive vs # of larvae)
pe vs unripe that might explain these data?
300: Where are the statistical tables comparing laboratory animals to the wild animals in the
plemental files? What is the statistical justification for why the data were pooled between sexes?
337: Cysteine is misspelled in Figure S1
391: You swap back and forth between Candidatus Erwinia dacicola and just Erwinia dacicola. In the
oduction, define the organism as Candidatus, but note that you will refer to it as Erwinia dacicola or
acicola throughout.
407: You should also cite Estes et al 2009.
409: Please align your 16S rRNA Pantoea sequence with the Enterobacter 16S rRNA deposited from
. olive flies: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/GQ478379.1 or compare the two using a BLASTn
ch to see if these are the same bacterial isolates. Pantoea and Enterobacter are often difficult to
inguish between and perhaps can not be distinguished between give the short MiSeq reads. However,
ould be nice to see if this Enterobacter, which we’ve found at low levels in U.S. populations is present
ther populations as well.
413: Which bacteria - the Erwinia or the Pantoea/Burkholderia – or do you just mean whatever is
sent in the microbiome of the fly? The Erwinia is extracellular during the adult stage, but not larval. I
k what you are suggesting is that if the gut microbiome is removed/decreased during antibiotic use,
bacteria from the environment, especially during feeding, may be acquired and become established
transmitted? Perhaps instead of saying “extracellular nature” you should say housed extracellularly in
gut lumen of the adult?
414: Antimicrobials are important, but other rearing methods might also disrupt transmission.
rent methods of egg collecting involve washing the outside of the eggs, which might wash off the
teria (see Estes etal 2011) that are thought to be smeared on the outside of the egg during
osition (Petri 1909, Estes et al 2009, Capuzzo et al).
423: remove “these” and insert “mass-reared”
429: This statement seems a little strong to me considering what you tested and your data.
469: insert “… services, beneficial bacteria…”
535: replace “symbiosis” with “mutualism”
800 and other instances: Include the specific sample size on each bar for figures 1, 2, 4
821: Label the sizes of the ladder on the gel. If the marker was used for the semi-quantitation of
ein amounts then the loading concentrations of the marker and samples should be mentioned.
824: Error bars should be shown since these were triplicates.
834: Are the bacterial counts different between larvae reared on unripe and ripe olives?
ould be nice to have a different symbol for both olive types.
the circle and diamond look very similar to each other when printed out due to their similar size.
t regards,
e M. Estes, PhD
t-Doctoral Fellow
itute for Genome Sciences
versity of Maryland, School of Medicine
Appendix B
Ben-Yosef et al. (RSOS-150170): "Symbiotic bacteria enable olive fly larvae to overcome
host defenses".
Response to Referees:
Reviewer1:
This is a nicely written and interesting paper examining an obligate symbiosis between
tephritid olive flies and an uncultivable strain of Erwinia. Olive flies are unusual for tephritids
in their ability to develop in unripe (and chemically well-defended) olives. The authors
examine the effect of antibiotic treatment on fly development and find that symbionts are
essential in unripe (but not ripe) fruits. They suggest that this is due to the presence of
oleuropein, a phenolic glycoside, in unripe fruits, that inhibits herbivory by cross-linking
proteins, although definitive evidence linking oleuropein and Erwinia is missing (this is
constrained by the difficulty in working with uncultivable bacteria). This paper will be of
interest to symbiosis researchers (an active and growing field).
- The authors could be a bit more explicit and clear about their working hypotheses on how
Erwinia is supplementing nutrition, as well as how to potentially test these hypotheses in
future experiments. Is there no lysine or is it unavailable? Is Erwinia providing lysine, or
freeing the unavailable lysine? Can asymbiotic flies develop in unripe olives that have been
supplemented with lysine? Can asymbiotic flies develop in unripe olives that have been
supplemented with glycine to inhibit oleuropein?
Some of these questions are discussed in lines 472-493 of the revised manuscript, and in the
supplementary results. The covalent binding of lysine by oleuropein probably excludes most
(if not all) of this essential nutrient from the diet of larvae developing in unripe fruit. Bacteria
may compensate for this by secreting lysine (or protein) which the larvae then utilize.
However, the digestive physiology of these flies suggests that bacteria are ultimately digested
in the gut and eventually serve as a direct source of nutrients. Sequencing and interpreting the
Erwinia genome will certainly clarify many questions concerning the nutritional interaction
between the bacterium and the fly. Additional experiments (e.g. supplementing olives with
lysine / glycine) will expand our understanding of this mutualism. We feel however, that
these valid questions, stretch beyond the scope of the current study and are thus presented but
not exhaustively discussed in the manuscript.
- I would remove ‘the greening of olives’ from the title – it doesn’t fit.
1
Done
- The methods in the main body of the text are confusing because it is not clear where the flies
that are not ‘lab-reared’ come from, especially since some of them are treated with antibiotics
(so something is happening in the lab!). It all becomes much clearer when I read the
supplemental methods, but it would help a great deal if the main methods were clarified.
(Also, is it possible to continuously rear flies in the lab? And do they lose Erwinia if they are
continuously reared on ripe fruits?)
Methods have been revised (lines 124-128 and 158-161). Additionally, to prevent confusion
"laboratory-reared" was replaced with "mass-reared" throughout the manuscript. Flies can be
continuously reared in the lab on synthetic diets. The perpetuation of Ca. Erwinia dacicola has
never been tried experimentally.
- line 170: how do you know that [only] oleuropein is responsible for the cross-linking?
As it is the overwhelmingly predominant secondary metabolite in olives (references 4, 31, 32)
and associated with protein denaturation in other Oleaceae (e.g. 37), this is a fair assumption.
- Are the olive varieties known to differ in oleuropein concentration? More information about
oleuropein would be useful (e.g. How do concentrations change over the age of the fruit?
What other secondary metabolites compounds are present and important in the olive?)
Information regarding the composition and phenology of olive phenolics is provided in lines
105-108. Further details were added in the revised discussion (lines 444 - 470) and can also
be found in the cited literature.
- line 321: I don’t see that the smear in lane 8 is in the expected position.
There was considerable movement of protein in this lane which concentrated approximately
at the same position as untreated ovalbumin, indicating that protein cross-linking was reduced
(but not absent) in ripe fruit (compare with lane 4 – ovalbumin incubated in unripe fruit
extract).
- line 389: ‘pervious’ to ‘previous’
2
Corrected
- lines 410-412: I don’t agree with (or understand) this sentence.
"The abundance of these bacteria (together with Burkholderia sp.) inversely correlated with
the levels of Erwinia dacicola, suggesting a consistent coexistence and interrelation between
these bacteria in the gut of olive fly larvae and adults (see also 21, 24, 25)" has been changed
to:
"The abundance of these bacteria (together with Burkholderia sp.) seems to change
correspondingly with the levels of Erwinia dacicola, suggesting a regulated interaction
between these bacteria in the gut of olive fly larvae and adults (see also 21, 24, 25)"
- line 506: sentence starting with ‘The peculiar…’ is awkwardly worded.
" The peculiar position of the olive fly on the symbiosis map of the Tephritidae, considered
with the unique chemistry of its host suggests that the intensity of plant defense exhibited by
the typical hosts of Tephritid flies is congruent with the mode by which larvae associate with
bacteria across this family." has been changed to:
Accordingly, an emergent principle from this and previous studies is that the intensity of plant
defense exhibited by the hosts of Tephritid flies determines the mode whereby larvae
associate with bacteria. When considered together with the unique chemistry of the olive
fruit, the dependence of the olive fly on one obligatory bacterial mutualist, illustrates this
principle.
Reviewer 2 (AM Estes):
The manuscript “The greening of olives: Symbiotic bacteria enable olive fly larvae to
overcome host defenses” by Ben-Yosef et al. is an excellent piece of work that adds
significantly to our understanding ofthe olive fly-Erwinia dacicola symbiosis specifically and
insect-bacterial interactions in general. Overall,the work is solid and the data are interesting.
However, there were a few issues where more information is necessary to understand what
was done. In particular, information is lacking about the details and reads sequenced for the
16S rRNA community analysis.
1. How were the MiSeq libraries constructed?
2. How many samples were run? What was the read depth per sample (prior to subsampling).
3
3. Were reads quality trimmed and checked for chimeras?
4. Was the amplicon used for the Mothur analysis generated from the forward and reverse
primers stitched together or only the forward read?
5. A rarefaction figure to demonstrate sampling depth was sufficient to capture the diversity
present should be a supplemental figure.
See response to these comments (1-5) below.
6. Put the MG-RAST deposition number in the body of the text with a list of what was
deposited.
Done
7. Was the MiSeq amplicon that was analyzed generated from the forward and reverse
primers stitched together or only the forward read? Was it quality trimmed?
See response below
8. Compare the V4 amplicon that was identified as Pantoea to the Enterobacter sp. that Estes
et al 2009 cultured and isolated (such as NCBI accession:GQ478383.1). The taxonomy of
Pantoea and Enterobacter is not well worked out and the specific identity might be difficult
to ascertain with only 300 bp. However, it would be beneficial to the olive fly community to
know if the same culturable bacteria is found at low levels in some individuals of
geographically isolated populations, especially since this bacterium can be cultured and could
be used for supplementing mass rearing.
See response below
For the larval survival experiments:
9. The weight difference between symbiotic and aposymbiotic reared in ripe olives looks
similar to the difference in pupal weight between unripe and ripe. Is this difference
statistically significant? How do you explain this difference, if so?
See response below
4
10. Where are the statistical tables comparing the mass-reared animal data to the wild animals
in the supplemental files? What is the statistical justification for why the data were pooled
between sexes?
See response below
In summary, this is an excellent manuscript with important findings, but these concerns need
to be addressed prior to publication. More detailed line-by-line comments are below:
Line 10: Add a comma after “ontogeny”
Comma added after "ontogeny" in line 28
Lines 29-31: This sentence is awkward and should be split into 2 sentences.
Changed to:
Olive flies (Bactrocera oleae) are uniquely able to develop in unripe olives. Unlike other
frugivorous Tephritids the larvae maintain bacteria confined within their midgut caeca
Line 32: comma between “bacteria” and “and” – these are 3 separate items in a list.
Done
Line 36: change to: “…ripe fruit, fly development…” or larval development
Done
Line 40: comma after bacteria – see line 32 comments above
Done
Lines 30 and 40: to make your writing the most clear, I wouldn’t use the term “host” at all,
since host could be either insect or plant. I realize that you are defining “host” as the olive,
but I would fear that a reader might become unnecessarily confused. It’s clearer to use fly,
olive, bacteria.
Corrected
5
Line 80: Enterobacter was also found occasionally in Estes et al 2009, which might be what
you are finding, but calling "Pantoea" based on a shorter sequence. This bacterium could be
cultured. Also Sacchetti et al. 2008.
Revised accordingly
Line 82: “olive flies predominantly utilize” – They prefer unripe olives, but will use ripe
olives. Late in the season when there are only ripe olives, flies will be predominantly using
ripe olives because unripe olives are not present.
Revised thus:
Additionally, whereas most fruit flies develop in ripe fruit, olive flies predominantly utilize
unripe olives, allowing them to complete several generations before ripe fruit become
available (28, 29).
Line 103: “fly development”
Changed to "larval development"
Line 103-104: Do you mean fly development occurred in the presence of antibiotics when
larvae were in ripe fruit? If so, clarify this to your reader.
Clarified in revision
Line 118: I wonder if you do not also want to include a sentence stating that this work
continues to build on your and other’s research supporting the hypothesis that the olive fly
microbiome is beneficial to the fly.
We feel that this point is expressed in the discussion.
Line 118 and throughout the manuscript: you use the term “symbiotic”, but this manuscript
and other publications from the same laboratory are showing support for the olive fly –
Erwinia association to be mutualistic or beneficial and should be stated as such. Symbiosis
was used previously when we did not have good experimental evidence of benefit or
detriment in this association. Thankfully, your experimental data changes this.
6
We prefer to use "symbiotic" in its broader sense since demonstrating the beneficial nature of
these associations for the larvae is one of our goals in this paper. In some cases "symbiotic"
was used in its technical sense (e.g. as opposed to aposymbiotic).
Line 126-127: what unit did you measure to in order to determine differences between the
number of eggs? Were olives weighed before oviposition as well to help determine number of
eggs? Or did you count oviposition marks?
The weight of individual eggs is within the error margin of analytical scales. Furthermore,
oviposition marks may be deceptive as many are not related to actual egg deposition and are
additionally particularly difficult to detect in ripe olives. Accordingly, our experiment was
designed to compare development within olive types (unripe or ripe) and used the number of
larvae, (which can be counted) and the weight of the fruit as covariates together with the
effect of the (symbiotic or aposymbiotic) treatment in the subsequent full factorial analyses
(Table S1).
Supplemental methods:
Should be 16S rRNA instead of 16s rRNA
Corrected
More details need to be given on the MiSeq sequencing.
-How were the MiSeq libraries constructed?
-How many samples were run? What was the read depth per sample (prior to subsampling).
-Were reads quality trimmed and checked for chimeras?
- Was the amplicon used for the Mothur analysis generated from the forward and reverse
primers stitched together or only the forward read?
The data (trimmed reads, rarefaction figures to show that sampling depth was sufficient to
capture the diversity present, beta diversity analyses) should also be provided in supplemental
figures and deposited to a public resource with the citation in the manuscript. In your
references, you have an MG-RAST link, but it is not in the body of your text.
These issues are now addressed in the revised manuscript (lines 356, 375-377),
supplementary methods (lines 67-73) and supplementary results (figure S2).
Line 278: How long was development of aposymbiotic larvae?
7
This is addressed in lines 298-306
Line 280: Are the data presented in Fig 2 pooled from both olive varieties?
Yes. See data analysis section, lines 215-231.
Figure 2a and 2b: the symbiotic pupal weight looks significantly different between unripe and
ripe olives. The statistics should be done on this. Were there differences in resources (weight
of olive vs # of larvae) in ripe vs unripe that might explain these data?
As the objective of the study is to examine differences in development within fruit types, we
did not present the analysis of comparisons between fruit types. Nevertheless we have done
this analysis (full factorial ANOVA) which reveals that indeed the differences in pupal weight
are significant:
Full model detailes:
Females: F = 24.54, P < 0.0001, R2 = 0.34
Males: F = 21.96, P < 0.0001, R2 = 0.33
Effect tests for females:
source DF F Ratio Prob > F
Olive variety 1 13.76 0.0002
olive weight / no. of larvae 1 56.50 <.0001
Olive variety*olive weight / no. of larvae 1 0.02 0.8778
olive maturity 1 43.23 <.0001
Olive variety*olive maturity 1 3.53 0.0610
olive weight / no. of larvae*olive maturity 1 0.33 0.5683
Olive variety*olive weight / no. of larvae*olive maturity 1 1.89 0.1706
Effect tests for males:
source DF F Ratio Prob > F
Olive variety 1 0.02 0.8824
olive weight / no. of larvae 1 34.31 <.0001
Olive variety*olive weight / no. of larvae 1 1.87 0.1722
olive maturity 1 54.80 <.0001
Olive variety*olive maturity 1 12.66 0.0004
olive weight / no. of larvae*olive maturity 1 0.63 0.4270
Olive variety*olive weight / no. of larvae*olive maturity 1 0.20 0.6559
8
This result is indeed very interesting per se, as it suggests that there are differences in
resource availability in olives at different developmental stages, and that larvae
(complemented by their symbionts) develop better in unripe fruit. These questions deserve a
study of their own but are not directly relevant to the focus and thrust of our current study,
which is to determine the effect of symbiotic bacteria on development. We feel that
overburdening the manuscript with this abundance of information distracts from the main the
focus of our study, without further supporting (or weakening) any of our conclusions.
Accordingly we opt to remain with the current level of detail in presenting our results.
Line 300: Where are the statistical tables comparing laboratory animals to the wild animals in
the supplemental files? What is the statistical justification for why the data were pooled
between sexes?
Laboratory reared flies contain very little or no Erwinia dacicola (Estes et al., 2012 and our
results- Figure 4). Accordingly the objective of this particular experiment, which
complements the experiment on wild flies but does not mirror it, was to determine the
competence of untreated mass reared flies on ripe and unripe fruit. Gratifyingly, we found
that they are incapable of developing in unripe fruit. Indeed, as we report in detail, no mass
reared flies developed in unripe olives, and of the 61 egg-bearing, ripe fruit, 18 olives
produced a total of 20 viable pupae. This finding supports the hypothesis that Erwinia
dacicola (present in wild flies but absent from mass reared flies) is responsible for the ability
to develop in unripe fruit. Although a detailed study of differences in development of wild
and mass reared flies is of general interest, it was not the objective here and not how our
experiments were designed. Thus, there is no methodological need or statistical compulsion
(in the context of the current study) for a comparison with the field population.
Regarding pooling of the males and females, their development times are now presented
separately.
Line 337: Cysteine is misspelled in Figure S1
Corrected
Line 391: You swap back and forth between Candidatus Erwinia dacicola and just Erwinia
dacicola. In the introduction, define the organism as Candidatus, but note that you will refer
to it as Erwinia dacicola or Er.dacicola throughout.
Done
9
Line 407: You should also cite Estes et al 2009.
Done
Line 409: Please align your 16S rRNA Pantoea sequence with the Enterobacter 16S rRNA
deposited from U.S. olive flies: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/GQ478379.1 or
compare the two using a BLASTn match to see if these are the same bacterial isolates.
Pantoea and Enterobacter are often difficult to distinguish between and perhaps can not be
distinguished between give the short MiSeq reads. However, it would be nice to see if this
Enterobacter, which we’ve found at low levels in U.S. populations is present in other
populations as well.
We feel that such information is tangential to the objectives of the paper. The data in the MG-
RAST depository is freely available for such comparisons.
Line 413: Which bacteria - the Erwinia or the Pantoea/Burkholderia – or do you just mean
whatever is present in the microbiome of the fly? The Erwinia is extracellular during the adult
stage, but not larval. I think what you are suggesting is that if the gut microbiome is
removed/decreased during antibiotic use, that bacteria from the environment, especially
during feeding, may be acquired and become established and transmitted? Perhaps instead of
saying “extracellular nature” you should say housed extracellularly in the gut lumen of the
adult?
Sentence changed to:
"In extreme situations bacteria in the gut lumen and caecae may be susceptible to
replacement…"
Line 414: Antimicrobials are important, but other rearing methods might also disrupt
transmission. Current methods of egg collecting involve washing the outside of the eggs,
which might wash off the bacteria (see Estes etal 2011) that are thought to be smeared on the
outside of the egg during oviposition (Petri 1909, Estes et al 2009, Capuzzo et al).
The use of antimicrobials was given as an example. Other practices which might disrupt
transmission of bacteria are reviewed in reference 27 (Estes et al. 2012) which is cited at the
end of the sentence.
10
Line 423: remove “these” and insert “mass-reared”
Done
Line 429: This statement seems a little strong to me considering what you tested and your
data.
Sentence has been revised:
The degree to which larvae depended on their bacteria is consistent with the extent to which
lysine was lost and protein complexes accumulated following incubation of ovalbumin in fruit
extracts.
Line 469: insert “… services, beneficial bacteria…”
Done
Line 535: replace “symbiosis” with “mutualism”
Done
Line 800 and other instances: Include the specific sample size on each bar for figures 1, 2, 4
Sample sizes are provided in the caption of each figure as well as in the text.
Line 821: Label the sizes of the ladder on the gel. If the marker was used for the semi-
quantitation of protein amounts then the loading concentrations of the marker and samples
should be mentioned.
Ladder size was labeled. Size markers were not used in semi-quantitation.
Line 824: Error bars should be shown since these were triplicates.
Done
11
Line 834: Are the bacterial counts different between larvae reared on unripe and ripe olives?
It would be nice to have a different symbol for both olive types. Also the circle and diamond
look very similar to each other when printed out due to their similar size.
Bacterial counts were not statistically different between larvae reared on unripe and ripe
olives (lines 379-384). Accordingly, and for simplifying the figure we prefer to present the
two datasets by a single symbol. The diamond has been replaced with a more conspicuous
triangle.
12
Society Open
