Comparative phylogenetic analyses uncover the ancient
roots of Indo-European folktales
Sara Graça da Silva and Jamshid J. Tehrani
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150645.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150645
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 November 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150645.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The work presented in this manuscript is not only scientifically sound, but also highly relevant to
the current debate surrounding the Indo-European origins as well as the cultural evolution of
folktales in general.
The structure of arguments in this manuscript is watertight, and the conclusions are thoroughly
backed up by the analyses. I personally feel that the results presented in Table 2 and Figure 4 are
extremely interesting, because in conjunction with the authors' careful selection of vertically
transmitted folktales as well as the use of Bouckaert et al.'s language phylogeny, they clearly
demonstrate that the evolution of folktales can provide penetrating insights into the prehistory of
Indo-European speakers. I strongly believe that anyone who reads this manuscript will
appreciate the high standard and scientific rigor the authors have imposed on themselves.
The main text is well written and the flow of presentation is smooth. Despite several readings of
it, I was unable to find anything to add to or subtract from the manuscript. I therefore
recommend accepting it as is.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Looking over the authors' responses to my review, I’m happy with what they’ve done. I think it’s
a good paper and should be published, I was surprised and disappointed that PRSB’s change in
policy, but I think it’d be a great paper for RSOS.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150645)
08-Dec-2015
Dear Dr Tehrani
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150645 entitled
"Comparative phylogenetic analyses uncover the ancient roots of Indo-European folktales" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150645
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
4
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 17-Dec-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Matthew Allinson):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The work presented in this manuscript is not only scientifically sound, but also highly relevant to
the current debate surrounding the Indo-European origins as well as the cultural evolution of
folktales in general.
The structure of arguments in this manuscript is watertight, and the conclusions are thoroughly
backed up by the analyses. I personally feel that the results presented in Table 2 and Figure 4 are
extremely interesting, because in conjunction with the authors' careful selection of vertically
transmitted folktales as well as the use of Bouckaert et al.'s language phylogeny, they clearly
demonstrate that the evolution of folktales can provide penetrating insights into the prehistory of
Indo-European speakers. I strongly believe that anyone who reads this manuscript will
appreciate the high standard and scientific rigor the authors have imposed on themselves.
The main text is well written and the flow of presentation is smooth. Despite several readings of
it, I was unable to find anything to add to or subtract from the manuscript. I therefore
recommend accepting it as is.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Looking over the authors' responses to my review, I’m happy with what they’ve done. I think it’s
a good paper and should be published, I was surprised and disappointed that PRSB’s change in
policy, but I think it’d be a great paper for RSOS.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150645
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150645
MS Title: Comparative phylogenetic analyses uncover the ancient roots of Indo-European
folktales
MS Authors: Silva, Sara; Tehrani, Jamshid
Contact Author: Jamshid Tehrani
Contact Author Email: jamie.tehrani@durham.ac.uk
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City:
Contact Author State:
6
Contact Author Country: United Kingdom
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code:
Keywords: Cultural evolution, Indo-European, folktales, oral tradition, phylogenetics
Abstract: Ancient population expansions and dispersals often leave enduring signatures in the
cultural traditions of their descendants, as well as in their genes and languages. The international
folktale record has long been regarded as a rich context in which to explore these legacies. To
date, investigations in this area have been complicated by a lack of historical data and the impact
of more recent waves of diffusion. In this study, we introduce new methods for tackling these
problems by applying comparative phylogenetic methods and autologistic modelling to analyse
the relationships between folktales, population histories and geographic distances in Indo-
European-speaking societies. We find strong correlations between the distributions of a number
of folktales and phylogenetic, but not spatial, associations among populations that are consistent
with vertical processes of cultural inheritance. Moreover, we show that these oral traditions
probably originated long before the emergence of the literary record, and find evidence that one
tale ('The Smith and the Devil') can be traced back to the Bronze Age. On a broader level, the
kinds of stories told in ancestral societies can provide important insights into their culture,
furnishing new perspectives on linguistic, genetic and archaeological reconstructions of human
prehistory.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150645)
We are delighted that the paper has been accepted for publication in Open Science, and thank the
Editors for overseeing a swift review process. The reviewers did not ask for any further revisions,
so we attach the email message from Dr. Allinson explaining that a template error occurred in the
decision letter.
Society Open
