Simultaneous inpainting and denoising by directional global
three-part decomposition: connecting variational and
Fourier domain-based image processing
D. H. Thai and C. Gottschlich
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171176.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171176
Review timeline
Original submission: 31 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171176.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Image inpainting and denoising are two classical and widely studied problems. Over the past
two decades, various methods have been proposed to handle them using different tools such as
variational analysis, PDE, Bayesian estimation, and sparse representation. The major challenge in
inpainting is to restore the corrupted texture as accurate as possible. From the perspective of the
calculus of variation, this manuscript presents a restoration model called DG3PD. However, the
presented method for texture inpainting is a simple combination of several existing works, i.e.,
morphological processing [36], texture synthesis [31], and nonlocal mean filtering [14]. Therefore,
in my opinion, the contribution of this manuscript is marginal. In fact, one can obtain the
competing results by subsequently applying nonlocal mean filtering (or BM3D) and texture
synthesis to the corrupted images.
The model is too complex so that it consists of nine constraint terms. Consequently, seven
subproblems need to be solved in each ALM iteration, which can generally slow the convergence
speed of the inpainting algorithm. The authors should discuss this issue. Another concern is that
the test images are very few, and the results of the objective evaluation metrics, e.g., PSNR, SSIM,
should also be given to completely evaluate the proposed method. Besides, the readability of the
manuscript is not good. It requires some effort to understand because there are many
unexplained notations and parameters, e.g., \mathcal{ C }, \textbf{g}, \textbf{D} in (1), H in
figure 9. And a part of the equation is missed in page 24 (see line 43).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The author’s have tackled a very challenging scientific problem in a very technical manner. They
have made a tremendous effort to devise a problem for inverse denoising and inpainting
problem. The proposed solution incorporates the image restoration from a large number of
missing pixels, noisy pixels and from cartoon as well as textures regions. The overall presentation
and graphical and technical aspect of the algorithm is up to the mark. Following are some of the
questions which I think needs to be answered.
· Since the author’s have employed a multistage image processing technique, I would like to
ask have the author’s considered the time complexity issue of the implementation of the given
algorithm. I suggest the author’s to comment upon it and compare it with other state-of-the-art
technique.
· Further, why have the author’s employed the non local means filter for denoising, where as
there are other effective image denoising algorithms like SA-BM3D, LPG-PCA and BLS-GSM.
Have the author’s optimised there results. Comment.
· I would like to put forth that why have the author’s incorporated inpainting prior to
denoising. What is the logic behind this idea? One approach could be denoising prior to
inpainting. Please comment. Have you restored the image from noisy pixels which could degrade
the quality of restored pixels? Please elaborate.
· Lastly why are there only two techniques with which the method has been compared?
Looking at the rigorous effort put in devising the algorithm it could have been presented as
outperforming the state-of-the –art methods as well. Please comment.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171176.R0)
19-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Thai,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Simultaneous Inpainting and Denoising by Directional
Global Three-part Decomposition: Connecting Variational and Fourier Domain Based Image
Processing") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11-Apr-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
4
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171176
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Marta Kwiatkowska (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Image inpainting and denoising are two classical and widely studied problems. Over the past
two decades, various methods have been proposed to handle them using different tools such as
variational analysis, PDE, Bayesian estimation, and sparse representation. The major challenge in
inpainting is to restore the corrupted texture as accurate as possible. From the perspective of the
calculus of variation, this manuscript presents a restoration model called DG3PD. However, the
presented method for texture inpainting is a simple combination of several existing works, i.e.,
morphological processing [36], texture synthesis [31], and nonlocal mean filtering [14]. Therefore,
in my opinion, the contribution of this manuscript is marginal. In fact, one can obtain the
competing results by subsequently applying nonlocal mean filtering (or BM3D) and texture
synthesis to the corrupted images.
The model is too complex so that it consists of nine constraint terms. Consequently, seven
subproblems need to be solved in each ALM iteration, which can generally slow the convergence
speed of the inpainting algorithm. The authors should discuss this issue. Another concern is that
the test images are very few, and the results of the objective evaluation metrics, e.g., PSNR, SSIM,
6
should also be given to completely evaluate the proposed method. Besides, the readability of the
manuscript is not good. It requires some effort to understand because there are many
unexplained notations and parameters, e.g., \mathcal{ C }, \textbf{g}, \textbf{D} in (1), H in
figure 9. And a part of the equation is missed in page 24 (see line 43).
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The author’s have tackled a very challenging scientific problem in a very technical manner. They
have made a tremendous effort to devise a problem for inverse denoising and inpainting
problem. The proposed solution incorporates the image restoration from a large number of
missing pixels, noisy pixels and from cartoon as well as textures regions. The overall presentation
and graphical and technical aspect of the algorithm is up to the mark. Following are some of the
questions which I think needs to be answered.
· Since the author’s have employed a multistage image processing technique, I would like to
ask have the author’s considered the time complexity issue of the implementation of the given
algorithm. I suggest the author’s to comment upon it and compare it with other state-of-the-art
technique.
· Further, why have the author’s employed the non local means filter for denoising, where as
there are other effective image denoising algorithms like SA-BM3D, LPG-PCA and BLS-GSM.
Have the author’s optimised there results. Comment.
· I would like to put forth that why have the author’s incorporated inpainting prior to
denoising. What is the logic behind this idea? One approach could be denoising prior to
inpainting. Please comment. Have you restored the image from noisy pixels which could degrade
the quality of restored pixels? Please elaborate.
· Lastly why are there only two techniques with which the method has been compared?
Looking at the rigorous effort put in devising the algorithm it could have been presented as
outperforming the state-of-the –art methods as well. Please comment.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171176.R0)
See Appendix A.
7
label_version_2
RSOS-171176.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
In the current manuscript, my comments are adequately addressed. It seems good enough to be
accepted for publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171176.R1)
20-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Thai,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Simultaneous Inpainting and
Denoising by Directional Global Three-part Decomposition: Connecting Variational and Fourier
Domain Based Image Processing" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
8
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof. Marta Kwiatkowska (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
In the current manuscript, my comments are adequately addressed. It seems good enough to be
accepted for publication.
Appendix A
Author Response to Reviews of:
Simultaneous Inpainting and Denoising by Directional
Global Three-part Decomposition: Connecting Variational
and Fourier Domain Based Image Processing
by Duy Hoang Thai and Carsten Gottschlich
Royal Society Open Science
Ms. Ref. No.: RSOS-171176
Summary:
We are very grateful to the reviewers for providing thoughtful and encouraging com-
ments, especially thank to the Editor-in-Chief for a full consideration of our manuscript.
Restoration of a noisy and textured image with a large number of missing pixels is a challeng-
ing task in inverse problems and imaging. Due to an advantage of a sparse representation
of a signal in different functional spaces, a calculus of variation and harmonic analysis are
two fundamental tools to solve this imaging problem.
Different from other approaches, we embed interpolation and image denoising in one
algorithm which minimizes an overall objective function for image reconstruction. By a
convex minimization problem, our optimal solution is obtained to simultaneously satisfy
the two purposes. In particular, given a textured image corrupted by heavy noise with a
large number of missing pixels, our idea is to decompose it into piecewise smooth image,
texture part and noise. Then, inspired by [1, 2], a process of interpolation is done by an
indicator function <U+03C7>cD on a measure of noise: C {<U+03C7>cD .× } `8 . Finally, all of the above
ingredients are embedded into one objective function minimized by an alternating method.
In general, there are some overall concerns from reviewers which we briefly summarize
in three key points:
• The proposed method is a combination of several existing works, i.e. morphological
processing, texture synthesis, and nonlocal mean filtering.
• The time complexity of the algorithm is high because the DG3PD inpainting model
is complicated with three constraint terms.
• the objective evaluation metrics, e.g., PSNR, SSIM, should be considered for a com-
plete assessment of the proposed method.
In the remainder of this response, we address these concerns directly and where ap-
propriate, cite specific changes that have been made to the manuscript. In addition to
the specific changes detailed below, we have very carefully reviewed our revised version of
this work and have made some minor edits to wording and spelling to improve readability.
Moreover, as suggested by the two reviewers, we compare our proposed model with Block-
Matching and 3D filtering (BM3D) available at http://www.cs.tut.fi/~foi/GCF-BM3D/,
please see pages 15-17 in our manuscript for a detailed explanation. We very much hope
that with these revisions in addition to the detailed changes outlined below, our manuscript
will now be appropriate for an acceptance.
In order to support our responses to reviewers’ comments, we also cite some state-of-
the-art articles in image denoising and inpainting:
[1] C. Ballester, M. Bertalmio, V. Caselles, G. Sapiro, and J. Verdera. Filling- in by
joint interpolation of vector fields and grey levels. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing,
10(8):1200-1211, August 2001.
[2] Mainberger M. et al. (2012) Optimising Spatial and Tonal Data for Homogeneous
Diffusion Inpainting. In: Bruckstein A.M., ter Haar Romeny B.M., Bronstein A.M., Bron-
stein M.M. (eds) Scale Space and Variational Methods in Computer Vision. SSVM 2011.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 6667. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg.
[3] Y. Meyer. Oscillating Patterns in Image Processing and Nonlinear Evolution Equa-
tions: The Fifteenth Dean Jacqueline B. Lewis Memorial Lectures. American Mathematical
Society, Boston, MA, USA, 2001.
[4] E. Candes and T. Tao. The Dantzig selector: Statistical estimation when p is much
larger than n. The Annals of Statistics 35 (6): 2313-2351, 2007.
[5] S. Boyd and J. Dattorro. Alternating Projections. Conference Proceedings.
Reviewer 1:
Comment 1: The reviewer expresses some challenges of textured image restoration: “Im-
age inpainting and denoising are two classical and widely studied problems. Over the past
two decades, various methods have been proposed to handle them using different tools such
as variational analysis, PDE, Bayesian estimation, and sparse representation. The major
challenge in inpainting is to restore the corrupted texture as accurate as possible. From
the perspective of the calculus of variation, this manuscript presents a restoration model
called DG3PD.” However, reviewer 1 raises some concerns about our approach as “a simple
combination of several existing works, i.e., morphological processing [36], texture synthesis
[31], and nonlocal mean filtering [14].” Furthermore, the reviewer suggests an alternative
approach to tackle this image restoration by “subsequently applying nonlocal mean filtering
(or BM3D) and texture synthesis to the corrupted images.”
Author Response: Thank you very much for this valuable and important recommenda-
tion.
In order to address this comment, there is a need to define criteria for restoration of a
textured, noisy image with a large number of missing pixels: “a restored image preserves
sharp edges and contrast without (ringing or stair-case) artefacts while in interpolation.”
Following a calculus of variation for simultaneously image inpainting and denoising in [1,
2], we embed these criteria into one objective function whose minimizer compromises all
norms simultaneously. Thus, this variational approach, e.g. [1, 2], is different from a simple
combination of several steps (e.g. morphological processing, texture synthesis, nonlocal
mean filtering, etc) separately. In the end, we have three image processing problems, namely
denoising, inpainting and texture analysis, which need to be solved:
• Handling image denoising problem by a calculus of variation is more advantage
than other approaches, e.g. harmonic analysis, to preserve sharp edges and contrast
while reducing artefacts, e.g. Gibbs (ringing) effect by harmonic analysis. However,
variational approaches are equipped by a (non)-convex minimization problem solved
by an alternating method.
• Image inpainting with a very large number of missing pixels is a difficult task. In a
literature, a calculus of variation is a powerful technique to tackle this image analysis.
In general, an alternating method is applied to solve these optimization problems.
• Texture analysis is very challenging because there is no definition for these repeated
patterns in the Fourier or spatial domains. Together with a very large number of miss-
ing pixels, restoration of a textured image is a tough field in mathematical imaging.
Finally, our response to a review on “subsequently applying nonlocal mean filtering (or
BM3D) and texture synthesis to the corrupted images” is that
• the computational complexity of this suggested method is higher than our proposed
DG3PD inpainting model, because it requires different loops of iteration to handle
distinct image processing tasks, especially image inpainting and denoising; and,
• due to all challenges in the three different processes: denoising, inpainting problems
and especially texture analysis, a reviewer’s approach is difficult to define a good or-
der for a combination of all steps to achieve a compromised solution for all criteria
simultaneously. In particular, if we apply inpainting problem prior to image denoising,
noise will be interpolated to homogeneous and textured regions. If we apply image
denoising (e.g. BM3D) prior to texture synthesis, missing pixel in homogeneous re-
gions cannot be interpolated. Thus, all steps should be done at one time by solving a
convex minimization. Note that a nonlocal mean technique BM3D is mainly designed
for image denoising, not image inpainting.
Actually, our variational procedure for textured image restoration is similar to the
method of alternating projections on (non)-convex minimization problem [5]. All crite-
ria are modeled by several convex sets, the alternating method projects an initial value to
several convex sets alternatively. Then, the whole procedure is repeated until a fixed point
is achieved to satisfy all convex sets. In the end, we need only one loop of iteration to obtain
this fixed point. Thus, our DG3PD inpainting model is not a simple combination of several
works.
Moreover, by mainly focusing on convex optimization problems applied to a textured
image restoration, one of our main contributions is to uncover an important link between
two well-known approaches in sparse signal processing, namely a calculus of variational and
harmonic analysis in a Banach space. If we apply separate procedure as a reviewer’s sugges-
tion, this link cannot be done. In particular, in a contrast to an open loop in a pyramidal
decomposition (e.g. Laplacian pyramid, wavelet, curvelet, etc), the solution of DG3PD
inpainting can be considered as a closed loop of the pyramid scheme with the true solution
in the minimization problem. And this closed loop filter design by the calculus of variation
will result in lowpass, highpass and bandpass filters which are “unique” for different images,
see Figure 17 for the pyramid scheme of the DG3PD inpainting model.
Comment 2: The reviewer raises a concern on model complexity as “The model is too
complex so that it consists of nine constraint terms. Consequently, seven subproblems need
to be solved in each ALM iteration, which can generally slow the convergence speed of the
inpainting algorithm.” Moreover, the reviewer also notes that “the test images are very few,
and the results of the objective evaluation metrics, e.g., PSNR, SSIM, should also be given
to completely evaluate the proposed method.”
Author Response: Thank you very much for this important comment.
Regarding the issue of time complexity we admit openly that the proposed method
is quite slow and not appropriate for real-time processing. However, we can imagine many
“offline” image restoration application for which a high processing time is not a hinderance.
Therefore, we confirm that the method is slow, but the complexity should be viewed as an
advantage: the decomposition enables a separate treatment of cartoon and texture parts
while other methods for image denoising and restoration do not allow such an adaptive
handling of different parts.
In particular, a calculus of variation is a powerful technique to find a compromised
solution for all criteria by minimizing a convex function in a Banach space, i.e. under
a minimization, all requirements are turned into several subproblems embedded in one
loop to obtain a minimizer (or a fixed point). Of course, splitting method, one strategy
to solve a convex minimization, results in more subproblems than three constraints in an
original minimization (1) in our manuscript. The idea behind is based on a concept: due
to sparseness, different signal is captured in different functional space, e.g.
• piecewise smooth signal is “sparse” in a bounded variational space,
• texture is well-captured by a directional G-norm [3],
• noise is well-separated by a Dantzig-like selector in a curvelet domain [3, 4],
• a key point for an interpolation of missing pixels is to embed an indicator function
inside a measure of noise, and finally
• all of the above criteria are quantified in a convex minimization which is minimized
by an iterative method.
For a concern on the objective evaluation metrics for test images, We note that
our goal is to preserve sharp edges and contrast as well as to avoid artefacts (e.g. Gibbs or
stair case effect) while interpolating a textured image corrupted by a very heavy noise and
with a large number of missing pixels. However, in the end of the day, there is no existing
metrics to evaluate required features, namely sharp edges and lost of contrast. Therefore,
due to this very challenging interpolation problem, a visual comparison is better than other
objective evaluation metrics, e.g. SNR, and some fundamental examples are performed to
illustrate our concept in stead of several complicated images, e.g. Barbara or Lena image.
Comment 3: Reviewer also comments on some notations in a manuscript: “the read-
ability of the manuscript is not good. It requires some effort to understand because there
are many unexplained notations and parameters, e.g., C, g, D in (1), H in figure 9. And a
part of the equation is missed in page 24 (see line 43).”
Author Response: Thank you very much for your valuable suggestions to improve the
presentation of our manuscript. We corrected all of your suggestions in this current version.
Reviewer 2:
Comment 1:
From the beginning, reviewer comments on a challenge of our study: “The author’s
have tackled a very challenging scientific problem in a very technical manner. They have
made a tremendous effort to devise a problem for inverse denoising and inpainting problem.
The proposed solution incorporates the image restoration from a large number of missing
pixels, noisy pixels and from cartoon as well as textures regions. The overall presentation
and graphical and technical aspect of the algorithm is up to the mark. Following are some
of the questions which I think needs to be answered.”
Author Response: Thank you very much for your consideration and please see our
responses in the following paragraphs.
Comment 2: Reviewer also raises a question on the computational complexity: “Since
the author’s have employed a multistage image processing technique, I would like to ask have
the author’s considered the time complexity issue of the implementation of the given algo-
rithm. I suggest the author’s to comment upon it and compare it with other state-of-the-art
technique.”
Author Response: Thank you very much for your good comment.
Due to a property of a calculus of variation for image restoration, our proposed DG3PD
inpainting is not a multistage image processing technique. A reason is that we turn all
requirements for a textured image restoration into several constraints in a convex optimiza-
tion in a Banach space. Then, an alternating method is applied to find a minimizer, called
a fixed point, that compromises all criteria.
Since the two reviewers share the same questions, we summarize our response to the
second comment of reviewer 1 here: the proposed method is quite slow and not appropriate
for real-time processing, but it is effective for many “offline” image restoration applications
for which a high computational time is not problematic. However, this complexity can be
viewed as an advantage of our approach, because a given image is decomposed into piece-
wise smooth image, texture and noise parts; and, a procedure of the interpolation is applied
simultaneously. This adaptive technique to handle different parts is a unique feature of our
contribution which other methods for image restoration in a literature do not have.
Comment 3: Similar to the first comment of reviewer 1 on a separable procedure, the re-
viewer 2 also asks: “why have the author’s employed the non local means filter for denoising,
where as there are other effective image denoising algorithms like SA-BM3D, LPG-PCA and
BLS-GSM. Have the author’s optimised there results.”
Author Response:
As in a suggestion of reviewer 1, we compare our approach with a nonlocal mean ap-
proach, namely BM3D, in terms of image denoising, please see Figure 8 on pages 17 in our
manuscript. There are some limitations of BM3D:
• for inpainting aspect, BM3D cannot interpolate mixing areas on homogeneous or
textured regions, so missing regions are wrongly interpolated by BM3D; and,
• for denoising aspect, denoised areas by BM3D are blurred without sharp edges, their
contrast is also lost, and there are artifacts on homogeneous regions.
We emphasize that we consider a very difficult problem and that existing algorithms like
BM3D are designed to partially solve only a part of the problem.
Comment 4: In the same vein with the first reviewer, reviewer 2 also raises questions:
“why have the author’s incorporated inpainting prior to denoising. What is the logic behind
this idea? One approach could be denoising prior to inpainting. Please comment. Have you
restored the image from noisy pixels which could degrade the quality of restored pixels?”
Author Response: Thank you very much for this important question.
As in our response to the first reviewer, due to all criteria of this textured image restora-
tion, we summarize two main limitations of the reviewers’ approach in the following:
• computational complexity becomes much larger if we treat the problem separately,
i.e. more separate loops of the iteration are needed to solve inpainting and denoising
tasks by a calculus of variation as well as texture synthesis.
• due to this challenging image processing problem, it is difficult to define an order of
all steps. We can not obtain an optimal solution that compromises all requirements
simultaneously. For our proposed variational approach, all criteria are embedded
as several constraints in a convex minimization. Its fixed point is obtained by an
alternating method with only one loop of the iteration.
We note again that this variational approach is a standard procedure in image restoration,
please see [1, 2].
Comment 5: Finally, reviewer also raises a question on: “why are there only two tech-
niques with which the method has been compared? Looking at the rigorous effort put in
devising the algorithm it could have been presented as outperforming the state-of-the-art
methods as well.”
Author Response: Thank you very much for this valuable comment.
We have decided not to claim an outperformance ofstate-of-the-art methods, because
we considered a very challenging task of dealing with images that have
1. a large percentage of missing pixels,
2. the known pixels corrupted by heavy noise, and
3. the images contain both cartoon and texture elements.
And an important requirement is a restored image should preserve sharp edge and contrast
without ringing or stair-case artifact.
To the best of our knowledge, there are no established benchmarks or databases for this
difficult problem and it is not fully clear which methods can be considered as state-of-the-art
in this area.
Society Open
