Cultural investment and urban socio-economic
development: a geosocial network approach
Xiao Zhou, Desislava Hristova, Anastasios Noulas, Cecilia Mascolo and Max Sklar
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170413.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170413
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 April 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 31 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170413.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Cultural Investment and Urban Socio-Economic Development:
A Geo-Social Network Approach
My problem with this paper is twofold.
First, the three data sets used – local authority expenditure on cultural facilities, the multiple
deprivation index and the foursquare check in data all appear to be on very different spatial
locational references: basically local authority areas (32 in London excluding the City), wards for
IMD, and geocoded point for Foursquare. I am not familiar with Foursquare and as this is central
to the network analysis, then I did not work out quite how this could be used. So my first point is
that these data sets should be much more clearly explained and there should be much clearer
sense of why they can be linked.
Second, I am quite uncertain as to why Foursquare check-ins have anything to do with cultural
visits or with how local authorities might indirectly take into account Foursquare check-ins for
allocating expenditure. This quite frankly is beyond me. Maybe I missed something critical in the
paper about this. Moreover I am not sure why this data should have any relevance over time
either. On page 5 line 32 the author/s say “We assume the impact of expenditure can be observed
after 9 months through Foursquare” How and why and what? – what does a foursquare check-in
in palace have anything to do with cultural investment?
Third I cannot see why changes in the Four square network relate to anything to do with changes
in multiple deprivation – unless more people visiting a place is correlated with such change but I
can’t see why? If however there is some attribute of the Foursquare data that basically the authors
have not made clear then this needs to be made clear – do people who use foursquare involve
themselves in cultural facilities – if so I don’t see what but maybe this is the case and they have
some sense of the politics of this kind of local authority’s allocation?
I think the conclusions of the paper are not strong: there is a mild tendency for less cultural
investments in areas where there is more multiple deprivation, I think although this could be
made clearer. A baseline model might be to compare cultural investment at the borough level
with expenditure and see if there is any correlation – there should be but of course much cultural
investment does not come from Local Authorities. In fact central Government got rid of museum
charges and this might make some sort of difference and many museums are nearer to culturally
deprived areas than they are to richer suburban or inner areas.
There are a number of detailed issues.
What is AUC – I couldn’t find the definition?
What is the scale of the change map in Figure 1 – what change – surely this whole thing is better
if we don’t look at change – is this something to do with the Coalition govt between 2010 and
2015 ?
Also the CE and the CV measures are what geographers call location quotients. I think the graph
of these would benefit if it were partitioned at CE=1 and CV=1 where the four quadrants show
different concentrations
I have no problem with the hypotheses – I think there is mild support for them in terms of what is
to be expected because basically if you put monies into an area you do get some impact and in
3
terms of London a lot of stuff has gone into underprivileged areas such as Stratford but much of
this is government not local government – this isn’t separated out
But to me the big question in all this is what does the Foursquare stuff have to do with the
attraction of areas of this investment or otherwise.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper presents an analysis of three datasets investigating the relationship between socio-
economic status, cultural investment and socio-spatial network properties. My overall impression
is positive; the topic and the methodology are quite interesting and the paper is well-written. I
therefore believe that it has the potential to be published in Royal Society Open Science, but there
are several points that must be addressed before publication.
General comment: The results presented in the paper should be examined and analyzed more
thoroughly. The paper looks like a juxtaposition of results without interpretation or discussion
about the hypothetical origin of these results. I would also recommend the authors to discuss
more in depth the representativeness of the “transition” network (sociodemographic
characteristic of the Foursquare users…) and to provide a map displaying the spatial distribution
of the different categories of venues.
1. Introduction
- The introduction is well written, the authors could maybe add few references to recent work
dealing with socio-economic data, network and cities. See for example,
Louail, T., Lenormand, M., Murillo Arias, J. & Ramasco, J. J. (2017) Crowdsourcing the Robin
Hood effect in cities. arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.08394.
4
Lotero, L., Cardillo, A., Hurtado, R., Gomez-Gardenes, J. (2014) Several Multiplexes in the Same
City: The Role of Socioeconomic Differences in Urban Mobility.
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2507816
- Minor comment: Foursqaure line 53 page 2
2. Dataset
- I would recommend the authors to give more details about the Index of Multiple Deprivation.
The IMD is the most used indicator of the paper and the readers have very little idea on how it
has been built. Is it correlated with the size of the ward?
- It would probably make more sense to normalize the cultural expenditure data by the number
of inhabitants in each ward (i.e. CEA per capita).
- The authors should define more rigorously the term ‘transition’. Is it a real movement? Did the
authors take into account the inter-event time to define a transition? In my opinion, the authors
should consider the network as a spatial network only and not a mobility network that make no
sense here. They could, for example, consider that a link exist between two venues if a user went
at least once (in his/her foursquare user life) from one venue to another and then weight this link
according to the number of users.
- The Foursquare spatial-network is evolving very fast, the number of links has been multiplied
by 1.5 between 2011 and 2012. This is not representative of the “real” geo-social network. Similar
comment for the number of created (or deleted) venues, they are probably not representative of
the real number of new venues in London. I know that every data source comes with biases but I
encourage the authors to add a paragraph discussing this point in the paper.
3. Metrics
- As mentioned above, the results would be easier to interpret if the metrics were normalized by
the number of inhabitants (when necessary) in order to avoid any “size” effect.
4. Preliminary analysis
- Fig 2 and Fig 3 are not easy to interpret, I would encourage the authors to display scatterplots
(even in SI) of the “raw” variables (IHM x expenditure…), globally and per year, to have a clear
idea on how the variables look like and what are the relationships between them. This will help
to identify hidden variables and to propose normalized metrics.
5. Evaluation & Results
[H1] The clustering coefficient seems to be the most significant indicator to discriminate less and
more deprived wards. Do the author have any explanations to provide? I recommend the authors
to add a plot to support their message.
[H1] The difference between group 1 and group 3 does not seem to be significant, meaning that
the effect of cultural investment is the same whatever the level of deprivation. The authors
should discuss this point in the text.
[H1] It could be interesting to show the same plot with clusters built with a normalized CEA.
[H1] I recommend the authors to show a map of the clusters, cluster 4 seems to be a residential
area located in the suburbs.
[H1] What do the dash lines represent in Fig 5?
5
[H2] It is not clear to me which spatio-temporal difference between averages are significant and
which are not. I recommend the authors to add a table (in SI for example) showing the level of
significance for each pair of averages (per group for a given year or year for a given group). It
would be also interesting to see the results obtained with the clustering coefficient.
[H3] The results obtained are better for ward having larger IMD. This is probably due to the level
of significance of change, the authors should add a few sentences about that in the section.
[H3] In the last sentence of the first paragraph page 14, the authors claim that their approach
shows preferable results than classification models used in the existing literature. The authors
should add references to substantiate this claim or remove the sentence.
[H4] The results presented of this section are interesting but should be discuss more thoroughly.
In addition, the number of metrics per category is different. It would be interesting to plot the
relative importance per category and/or normalized by the number of features in each category.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170413)
07-Jul-2017
Dear Ms Zhou,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Cultural Investment and Urban Socio-Economic
Development: A Geo-Social Network Approach") have now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance. The reviewers are in agreement that
more analysis is needed and the results should be better justified.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Jul-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
6
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170413
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
7
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Marta Kwiatkowska
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Cultural Investment and Urban Socio-Economic Development:
A Geo-Social Network Approach
My problem with this paper is twofold.
First, the three data sets used – local authority expenditure on cultural facilities, the multiple
deprivation index and the foursquare check in data all appear to be on very different spatial
locational references: basically local authority areas (32 in London excluding the City), wards for
IMD, and geocoded point for Foursquare. I am not familiar with Foursquare and as this is central
to the network analysis, then I did not work out quite how this could be used. So my first point is
that these data sets should be much more clearly explained and there should be much clearer
sense of why they can be linked.
Second, I am quite uncertain as to why Foursquare check-ins have anything to do with cultural
visits or with how local authorities might indirectly take into account Foursquare check-ins for
allocating expenditure. This quite frankly is beyond me. Maybe I missed something critical in the
paper about this. Moreover I am not sure why this data should have any relevance over time
either. On page 5 line 32 the author/s say “We assume the impact of expenditure can be observed
after 9 months through Foursquare” How and why and what? – what does a foursquare check-in
in palace have anything to do with cultural investment?
Third I cannot see why changes in the Four square network relate to anything to do with changes
in multiple deprivation – unless more people visiting a place is correlated with such change but I
can’t see why? If however there is some attribute of the Foursquare data that basically the authors
have not made clear then this needs to be made clear – do people who use foursquare involve
themselves in cultural facilities – if so I don’t see what but maybe this is the case and they have
some sense of the politics of this kind of local authority’s allocation?
I think the conclusions of the paper are not strong: there is a mild tendency for less cultural
investments in areas where there is more multiple deprivation, I think although this could be
made clearer. A baseline model might be to compare cultural investment at the borough level
with expenditure and see if there is any correlation – there should be but of course much cultural
investment does not come from Local Authorities. In fact central Government got rid of museum
charges and this might make some sort of difference and many museums are nearer to culturally
deprived areas than they are to richer suburban or inner areas.
There are a number of detailed issues.
8
What is AUC – I couldn’t find the definition?
What is the scale of the change map in Figure 1 – what change – surely this whole thing is better
if we don’t look at change – is this something to do with the Coalition govt between 2010 and
2015 ?
Also the CE and the CV measures are what geographers call location quotients. I think the graph
of these would benefit if it were partitioned at CE=1 and CV=1 where the four quadrants show
different concentrations
I have no problem with the hypotheses – I think there is mild support for them in terms of what is
to be expected because basically if you put monies into an area you do get some impact and in
terms of London a lot of stuff has gone into underprivileged areas such as Stratford but much of
this is government not local government – this isn’t separated out
But to me the big question in all this is what does the Foursquare stuff have to do with the
attraction of areas of this investment or otherwise.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The paper presents an analysis of three datasets investigating the relationship between socio-
economic status, cultural investment and socio-spatial network properties. My overall impression
is positive; the topic and the methodology are quite interesting and the paper is well-written. I
therefore believe that it has the potential to be published in Royal Society Open Science, but there
are several points that must be addressed before publication.
General comment: The results presented in the paper should be examined and analyzed more
thoroughly. The paper looks like a juxtaposition of results without interpretation or discussion
about the hypothetical origin of these results. I would also recommend the authors to discuss
more in depth the representativeness of the “transition” network (sociodemographic
characteristic of the Foursquare users…) and to provide a map displaying the spatial distribution
of the different categories of venues.
1. Introduction
- The introduction is well written, the authors could maybe add few references to recent work
dealing with socio-economic data, network and cities. See for example,
Louail, T., Lenormand, M., Murillo Arias, J. & Ramasco, J. J. (2017) Crowdsourcing the Robin
Hood effect in cities. arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.08394.
Lotero, L., Cardillo, A., Hurtado, R., Gomez-Gardenes, J. (2014) Several Multiplexes in the Same
City: The Role of Socioeconomic Differences in Urban Mobility.
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2507816
- Minor comment: Foursqaure line 53 page 2
2. Dataset
- I would recommend the authors to give more details about the Index of Multiple Deprivation.
The IMD is the most used indicator of the paper and the readers have very little idea on how it
has been built. Is it correlated with the size of the ward?
9
- It would probably make more sense to normalize the cultural expenditure data by the number
of inhabitants in each ward (i.e. CEA per capita).
- The authors should define more rigorously the term ‘transition’. Is it a real movement? Did the
authors take into account the inter-event time to define a transition? In my opinion, the authors
should consider the network as a spatial network only and not a mobility network that make no
sense here. They could, for example, consider that a link exist between two venues if a user went
at least once (in his/her foursquare user life) from one venue to another and then weight this link
according to the number of users.
- The Foursquare spatial-network is evolving very fast, the number of links has been multiplied
by 1.5 between 2011 and 2012. This is not representative of the “real” geo-social network. Similar
comment for the number of created (or deleted) venues, they are probably not representative of
the real number of new venues in London. I know that every data source comes with biases but I
encourage the authors to add a paragraph discussing this point in the paper.
3. Metrics
- As mentioned above, the results would be easier to interpret if the metrics were normalized by
the number of inhabitants (when necessary) in order to avoid any “size” effect.
4. Preliminary analysis
- Fig 2 and Fig 3 are not easy to interpret, I would encourage the authors to display scatterplots
(even in SI) of the “raw” variables (IHM x expenditure…), globally and per year, to have a clear
idea on how the variables look like and what are the relationships between them. This will help
to identify hidden variables and to propose normalized metrics.
5. Evaluation & Results
[H1] The clustering coefficient seems to be the most significant indicator to discriminate less and
more deprived wards. Do the author have any explanations to provide? I recommend the authors
to add a plot to support their message.
[H1] The difference between group 1 and group 3 does not seem to be significant, meaning that
the effect of cultural investment is the same whatever the level of deprivation. The authors
should discuss this point in the text.
[H1] It could be interesting to show the same plot with clusters built with a normalized CEA.
[H1] I recommend the authors to show a map of the clusters, cluster 4 seems to be a residential
area located in the suburbs.
[H1] What do the dash lines represent in Fig 5?
[H2] It is not clear to me which spatio-temporal difference between averages are significant and
which are not. I recommend the authors to add a table (in SI for example) showing the level of
significance for each pair of averages (per group for a given year or year for a given group). It
would be also interesting to see the results obtained with the clustering coefficient.
[H3] The results obtained are better for ward having larger IMD. This is probably due to the level
of significance of change, the authors should add a few sentences about that in the section.
[H3] In the last sentence of the first paragraph page 14, the authors claim that their approach
shows preferable results than classification models used in the existing literature. The authors
should add references to substantiate this claim or remove the sentence.
10
[H4] The results presented of this section are interesting but should be discuss more thoroughly.
In addition, the number of metrics per category is different. It would be interesting to plot the
relative importance per category and/or normalized by the number of features in each category.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170413)
See Appendices A & B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170413.R1)
31-Aug-2017
Dear Ms Zhou,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Cultural Investment and Urban Socio-
Economic Development: A Geo-Social Network Approach" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
This is a quality manuscript - very timely technical research which provides significant insight
into an ongoing economic and social debate. The dataset is impressive, something that could have
only been obtained through collaboration with industry. The manuscript is well-written and
presented (the combination of results and figures really brings the results to life).
Appendix A
Response Letter to Reviewers
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
15th Aug 2017
Dear Ms Power:
Subject: Submission of revised paper RSOS-170413 "Cultural Investment and Urban Socio-
Economic Development: A Geo-Social Network Approach"
Thank you for your email dated 7 July 2017 enclosing the reviewers’ comments. We have
carefully reviewed the comments and have revised the manuscript accordingly. Our
responses are given in a point-by-point manner below. Changes to the manuscript are shown
in underline.
We hope the revised version is now suitable for publication and look forward to hearing from
you in due course.
Sincerely,
Xiao Zhou
University of Cambridge
Response to Reviewer 1:
Thank you for your review of our paper. We have answered each of your points below.
1. The three datasets used are on different spatial locational references. I am not familiar with
Foursquare and as this is central to the network analysis, then I did not work out quite how
this could be used. So, my first point is that these data sets should be much more clearly
explained and there should be much clearer sense of why they can be linked.
Response: The structure of the Dataset section has been adjusted to make it more clearly
explained. Specifically, we have described more about the datasets, especially the IMD and
Foursquare data. In addition, a subsection (2.d) has been added in the revised version to
explain about how we deal with different geographic levels issue and how to make the linkage
of the three datasets possible.
2. Why Foursquare check-ins have anything to do with cultural visits or with how local
authorities might indirectly take into account Foursquare check-ins for allocating expenditure.
Response: Cultural impact assessment onto socio-economic indicators in cities has long been
an important but difficult task. Due to the lack of large-scale data with a fine spatio-temporal
resolution, there have been limitations in terms of how we can measure cultural engagement
or visits. For local authorities, the cultural investment is a significant portion of their budget,
therefore there is a need to explore new ways of assessing the success of cultural investments
which we propose can be done through Foursquare check-ins using network science. This
argument is given in the Introduction section (p.2). Additionally, we have added a figure
(Figure 1 in the revised version) presenting the distribution of Foursquare cultural venues and
given a definition of urban cultural venues in 2.c (p.5).
In the second paragraph of Discussion & Conclusions section, we provide some suggestions
about how local authorities might take into account Foursquare check-ins for allocating
expenditure. Briefly speaking, there are at least two ways we can think of that governments
and policy makers can utilise our research findings through Foursquare data in practice. Firstly,
we have listed some metrics derived from Foursquare check-in data, including in-degree
centrality, out-degree centrality, and average clustering coefficient. Through the observation
of these features, governments can detect whether the vitality of local areas has been
enhanced. Furthermore, our research has presented geo-social network data’s ability to
enrich or even replace traditional census-based deprivation statistics by proposing a
supervised learning framework for predicting the outcome of cultural investment in
neighbourhoods. By taking advantage of this, local governments can put their planned
cultural expenditure amount into the model, combined with geographic and Foursquare
network metrics we have introduced, to predict whether the socio-economic condition of the
particular area would be improved as expected.
3. Why changes in the Foursquare network relate to anything to do with changes in multiple
deprivation?
Response: The changes of local geo-social network derived from Foursquare can reflect the
changes of overall deprivation level in a variety of ways. This is a very interesting question
that has inspired several research ideas in existing literature. Some of these publications are
cited in our paper, for instance, [11] (Quercia D, Saez D. 2014 Mining urban deprivation from
foursquare: Implicit crowdsourcing of city land use. IEEE Pervasive Computing. 13(2), 30-36.),
[12] (Venerandi A, Quattrone G, Capra L, Quercia D, Saez-Trumper D. 2015 Measuring urban
deprivation from user generated content. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing. 254-264.), and [13] (Hristova D,
Williams MJ, Musolesi M, Panzarasa P, Mascolo C. 2016 Measuring Urban Social Diversity
Using Interconnected Geo-Social Networks. In Proceedings of the 25th International
Conference on World Wide Web. 21-30.). Broadly speaking, these researchers discussed the
relationship between the presence of certain types of Foursquare venues with deprivation of
neighbourhoods. The underlying reason behind this phenomenon is that more deprived and
less deprived areas are generally more attractive to different particular types of business or
people, which can be observable through the lens of Foursquare network. This discussion is
given in the third paragraph in the Introduction section (p.2).
4. I think the conclusions of the paper are not strong: there is a mild tendency for less cultural
investments in areas where there is more multiple deprivation, I think although this could be
made clearer. A baseline model might be to compare cultural investment at the borough level
with expenditure and see if there is any correlation – there should be but of course much
cultural investment does not come from Local Authorities. In fact, central Government got rid
of museum charges and this might make some sort of difference and many museums are
nearer to culturally deprived areas than they are to richer suburban or inner areas.
Response: The findings of the analyses and conclusions of the paper are presented and made
step by step. We firstly run a preliminary analysis on London boroughs to get a general view
and lay a basis for further investigation. We then outline four hypotheses underpinning our
analyses grounded on the preliminary analysis and existing literature before they are tested
at ward level. To make this clearer and stronger, there are two main parts we have improved
in the revised version. Firstly, we add more transitional sentences to strengthen the
connection between findings in preliminary analysis and hypotheses evaluation. By this way,
we expect the results to be presented more coherently and the conclusions will be made
stronger. Besides adding transitional sentences throughout the paper, we have also rewritten
Discussion & Conclusions section to make the summary of our conclusions clearer. There
seems to be some confusion about cultural expenditure. In this research, cultural expenditure
does not mean how much money the local authorities collect from the cultural places within
their administrative areas or how much citizens spend on cultural visits. Instead, the cultural
expenditure data used in the paper is about how much local authorities spend on culture-
related services in each financial year. Although the baseline model you suggested would be
very interesting, we specifically focus on the use of Foursquare data for such applications
instead of doing a general economic analysis of such investments.
5. What is AUC? I couldn’t find the definition.
Response: The definition of AUC is given in the second paragraph of 6.c. It stands for area
under ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) curve and is commonly used as a measure of
the overall quality of binary classification models. Its value lies between 0.5 to 1, where a
random classifier has a AUC of 0.5 and a perfect classifier’s AUC is equal to 1. For more
information about AUC, you can refer to [22] (Hastie TJ, Tibshirani RJ, Friedman JH. 2011 The
elements of statistical learning: data mining, inference, and prediction. Springer).
6. What is the scale of the change map in Figure 1 – what change – surely this whole thing is
better if we don’t look at change – is this something to do with the Coalition govt between
2010 and 2015?
Response: We have revised Figure 2 (Figure 1 in the previous version) by adding the scale of
color bar in the legend. Here, change means IMD ranking change, which is pointed in the title
of legend and explained more in the text. (p.7) As for the reason why we look at IMD change
instead of IMD score of a certain year, it is because our target feature in the prediction task
is the IMD change from 2010 to 2015. We want to use this subsection (3.a) and Figure 2 to
illustrate that geographic features can have an influence on the IMD change. This is the
reason why we involve geographic metrics in the prediction model. There may be some
complex political and social factors for this change but we are exploring it in the context of
cultural investment and human mobility only in this work.
7. The CE and the CV measures are what geographers call location quotients. I think the graph
of these would benefit if it were partitioned at CE=1 and CV=1 where the four quadrants show
different concentrations.
Response: In the revised manuscript, we have introduced location quotients and cited
relevant literature ([20] and [21]) at the beginning of 3.d before defining our cultural
advantage metrics. To partition the Figure 3 at CEA=1 and CVA=1 is a very good suggestion.
We have added two axes across the 1 to split the figure into quadrants.
Response to Reviewer 2:
Thank you for your comments. Our answers to your points are as follows.
1. General comment: The results presented in the paper should be examined and analyzed
more thoroughly. The paper looks like a juxtaposition of results without interpretation or
discussion about the hypothetical origin of these results. I would also recommend the authors
to discuss more in depth the representativeness of the “transition” network
(sociodemographic characteristic of the Foursquare users…) and to provide a map displaying
the spatial distribution of the different categories of venues
Response: As suggested, we have added more interpretation and discussion about the results
throughout the paper in response to the hypotheses, especially in the Evaluation section. The
Foursquare dataset we use does not contain user information and it is therefore not possible
to determine the socioeconomic status of users who made check-ins. However, we can
observe that the majority of these check-ins were made in inner London as shown in the
figure below. Most cultural venues also tend to be in such areas as the new Figure 1 presents.
In addition, we discuss the biases and representativeness of our Foursquare data in Discussion
& Conclusions. We have created a new map which shows the spatial distribution of different
categories of venues as suggested in Figure 1.
2. Introduction. The introduction is well written, the authors could maybe add few references
to recent work dealing with socio-economic data, network and cities.
Response: As suggested, we have cited the Louail, T., Lenormand, M., Murillo Arias, J. &
Ramasco, J. J. (2017) Crowdsourcing the Robin Hood effect in cities ([8]). We did not cite
Lotero et al (2014) as the data they used is traditional survey data.
3. Minor comment: Foursqaure line 53 page 2
Response: “Foursqaure” has been corrected to “Foursquare” in the paper.
4. Dataset: I would recommend the authors to give more details about the Index of Multiple
Deprivation. The IMD is the most used indicator of the paper and the readers have very little
idea on how it has been built. Is it correlated with the size of the ward?
Response: More description about the IMD has been given in 2.a. (p.4). We ran the Pearson’s
correlation analysis for the size of ward and the IMD rankings in 2010 and 2015, respectively.
Both of the correlation coefficients are less than 0.3 (0.29 for 2010 and 0.27 for 2015), which
signifies that there is little correlation between the IMD and the size of ward.
5. It would probably make more sense to normalize the cultural expenditure data by the
number of inhabitants in each ward (i.e. CEA per capita).
Response: Indeed, paying attention to the normalisation of metrics is important. The
expenditure features we apply in our prediction models are all normalised by the population
of the area (CEOP, CECH, CELS, CERS, and CET). Cultural expenditure advantage (CEA) is
already a normalised metric, which is based on the concept of location quotients from
geography. It evaluates to which extent a neighbourhood gives priority to culture compared
to the city average. In the research, we want to employ this metric to measure whether the
cultural expenditure of an area is higher than the city average by comparing it with 1. Also,
we have introduced the definition and equation of location quotients and cited relevant
literature ([20] and [21]) at the beginning of 3.d before defining our cultural advantage
metrics. We hope this can lead readers to a better understanding of the CEA.
6. The authors should define more rigorously the term ‘transition’. Is it a real movement? Did
the authors take into account the inter-event time to define a transition? In my opinion, the
authors should consider the network as a spatial network only and not a mobility network
that make no sense here. They could, for example, consider that a link exist between two
venues if a user went at least once (in his/her foursquare user life) from one venue to another
and then weight this link according to the number of users.
Response: We have explained more about the ‘transition’ network in the revised manuscript.
Another paper where Foursquare network has been used as a mobility network is [18] (Noulas
A, Shaw B, Lambiotte R, Mascolo C. 2015 Topological properties and temporal dynamics of
place networks in urban environments. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference
on World Wide Web. 431-441. ACM.) Yes, each transition trip is a real movement which
includes successive pairs of check-ins. To establish the network for each year window and
calculate changes of networks between years are important for our research, because these
change features (growth rate metrics) are main signals to detect local development and are
used as powerful indicators for the prediction. We do not have any information about users
in this Foursquare dataset, therefore it is not possible to build the network based on users.
7. The Foursquare spatial-network is evolving very fast, the number of links has been
multiplied by 1.5 between 2011 and 2012. This is not representative of the “real” geo-social
network. Similar comment for the number of created (or deleted) venues, they are probably
not representative of the real number of new venues in London. I know that every data source
comes with biases but I encourage the authors to add a paragraph discussing this point in the
paper.
Response: We agree with you that such biases indeed exist and have added some clarification
in Discussion & Conclusions. Foursquare data as well as other social media data in general is
shown to be biased towards more central than peripheral parts of the city and often omits
significant portions of the population who might be more deprived. Also, the Foursquare
venues do not represent the absolute set of urban places exactly as in physical space, but they
provide us with an inspirational view to understand cities in fine grained spatio-temporal
contexts. In our case, Foursquare data make it possible to observe cultural investment taking
place and predict its effects. Although imperfect, it is a promising new method which is cost-
effective and dynamic.
8. Preliminary analysis: Fig 2 and Fig 3 are not easy to interpret, I would encourage the authors
to display scatterplots (even in SI) of the “raw” variables (IHM x expenditure…), globally and
per year, to have a clear idea on how the variables look like and what are the relationships
between them. This will help to identify hidden variables and to propose normalized metrics.
Response: We have added axes to split Figure 3 (Figure 2 in the old version) and Figure 4
(Figure 3 in the old version) into quadrants for better interpretability. The goal of this
preliminary analysis is to consider groups of varying expenditure and network properties in
relation to the IMD which is the best way we have found to visualise the three-dimensional
space.
9. [H1] The clustering coefficient seems to be the most significant indicator to discriminate
less and more deprived wards. Do the author have any explanations to provide? I recommend
the authors to add a plot to support their message.
Response: We have added a plot (Figure 6) to present the result of average clustering
coefficient in one-way ANOVA analysis and interpreted the results more in the text. (p.12)
10. [H1] I recommend the authors to show a map of the clusters, cluster 4 seems to be a
residential area located in the suburbs.
Response: As suggested, we have mapped the spatial distribution of ward groups in Figure 5.
Just as you said, most wards of Group 4 are located in the suburbs. We can also observe that
the majority of wards in Group 2, which are more deprived and less advantaged in cultural
spending, are located in East London.
11. [H1] What do the dash lines represent in Fig 5?
Response: We have added the explanation of the dashed line in the figures. These dashed
lines mean the average values of all wards. By drawing the dashed line, we can see whether
a group’s average is higher or lower than the average of all wards, and how much the gap is.
12.[H2] It is not clear to me which spatio-temporal difference between averages are
significant and which are not. I recommend the authors to add a table (in SI for
example) showing the level of significance for each pair of averages (per group for a given
year or year for a given group). It would be also interesting to see the results obtained with
the clustering coefficient.
Response: Metrics tagged [H1] and [H2] in Table 3 are variables that are tested in ANOVA
analyses. Only variables showing statistically significant effects are plotted in Figure 6-8. As
we can see from Table 3, we ran the ANOVA analyses on seven features in total. The output
results reveal that there are significant effects on six features in one-way ANOVA and five
features in two-way ANOVA analysis at the p < .05 level. Due to the space limit, we only
extract and present statistically significant results in the paper. Your advice of presenting the
level of significance for each pair of averages in a table is good. Surely, by making a table, the
statistical analysis results would be shown more clearly. We tried but found that the table
would be too big. In two-way ANOVA, there are five features showing significant effects and
three with significant interaction effects. Each of them has four groups and three time points
to make pair-wise comparison. We have tried to present our results more professionally and
interpret them more clearly.
13. [H3] The results obtained are better for ward having larger IMD. This is probably due to
the level of significance of change, the authors should add a few sentences about that in the
section.
Response: From the prediction results presenting in [H3], we can see the performance of
models is better for wards having greater IMD changes. The reason for this is probably that
neighbourhoods which experienced larger IMD changes had more evident changes in local
and network properties, making their socio-economic changes easier to be predicted. As
suggested, more explanation has been added in the section.
14. [H4] The results presented of this section are interesting but should be discuss more
thoroughly. In addition, the number of metrics per category is different. It would be
interesting to plot the relative importance per category and/or normalized by the number of
features in each category.
Response: We have tried to interpret our results of [H4] in a more detailed way. In this part
of research, we are interested in the overall result of a layer of data such as geographic etc.
after the analysis for each individual feature. The number of features left for each category
after the selection is also kind of reflection of the particular category’s significance. In our
research, there is not much difference between the number of features for the three
categories (4 geographic features, 5 network features, and 6 cultural expenditure features).
By this way, it can be concluded that category Network is the most significant for the
prediction.
Appendix B
Cultural Investment and
Urban Socio-Economic
Development: A Geo-Social
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org
Network Approach
Xiao Zhou1,2 , Desislava Hristova2 ,
Research
Anastasios Noulas3 , Cecilia Mascolo2 and
Article submitted to journal
Max Sklar4
1 Dept. of Land Economy, University of Cambridge, UK
2 Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge, UK
Subject Areas:
3 Center for Data Science, New York University, USA
Computer science
4 Foursquare Labs, New York, USA
Keywords:
geo-social network, culture-led
Being able to assess the impact of government-led
regeneration, cultural investment, investment onto socio-economic indicators in cities
deprivation prediction has long been an important target of urban planning.
However, due to the lack of large-scale data with
a fine spatio-temporal resolution, there have been
Author for correspondence:
limitations in terms of how planners can track the
Xiao Zhou
impact and measure the effectiveness of cultural
e-mail: xz331@cam.ac.uk investment in small urban areas. Taking advantage
of nearly 4 million transition records for three years
in London from a popular location-based social
network service, Foursquare, we study how the socio-
economic impact of government cultural expenditure
can be detected and predicted. Our analysis shows
that network indicators such as average clustering
coefficient or centrality can be exploited to estimate
the likelihood of local growth in response to cultural
investment. We subsequently integrate these features
in supervised learning models to infer socio-economic
deprivation changes for London’s neighbourhoods.
This research presents how geo-social and mobile
services can be used as a proxy to track and predict
socio-economic deprivation changes as government
financial effort is put in developing urban areas
and thus gives evidence and suggestions for further
policy-making and investment optimisation.
c 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the
Creative Commons Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/
by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use, provided the original author and
source are credited.
1. Introduction 2
In 1997, the striking ’Bilbao miracle’ created by Guggenheim Museum not only provided Bilbao,
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
a depressed northern Spanish port town, with a dramatic socio-economic growth, but also
demonstrated that cities can blossom with cultural investment [1,2]. Even though the ability of
culture to promote local regeneration has received general acceptance, large-scale evaluation
and prediction of its impact are still not widely practised. The potential of network science in
offering insight on deprivation dynamics [3] along with the millions of human mobility traces
made available by location-based applications has so far been largely untapped in culture-led
regeneration studies. In this paper, we propose a new fusion of techniques using geo-social
network data from Foursquare1 to quantify the effect of cultural investment on the urban
..............................................................
regeneration process and predict its outcome in London’s neighbourhoods.
Culture-led urban regeneration, as one of the main branches of urban regeneration, has
received increasing attention globally in recent decades and been applied by a number of
governments as a boost to revitalising depressed urban areas. Historically, it was in the 1970s
when culture was first used as a catalyst to accelerate urban regeneration and by the late 1980s
when the term ’culture-led regeneration’ started to emerge in literature [2]. Ever since then,
the significant role that culture can play in urban regeneration has been widely discussed by
researchers. In [4], Keddie pointed out culture’s effectiveness in reducing the deprivation level
and promoting ’social mixing’ for urban areas; Vickery stated that culture can be utilized by cities
to improve existing environment, attract tourism, increase employment, and reinforce civic pride
[2]. In addition to the benefits mentioned above, another ’by-product’ of culture-led regeneration
is creating the city branding, which is thought to be particularly attractive to those international
metropolises with an expectation to make the city an alluring base so as to promote its functional
role in the global economy [5,6]. Realising the positive effects that might be brought, a growing
number of cities have begun to put more effort and allocate more financial resources to culture to
promote urban regeneration. London, the city we choose to study in this research, is no exception.
Despite local government budgets experiencing considerable pressure as a result of the central
government funding cuts in recent years, the local authorities in London remain significant
supporters of arts and culture. In 2013/14 for example, the spending of London boroughs on
arts and culture was £220.5 million, representing around 3 per cent of the total local authority
spending in the city, in comparison with 2.2 per cent nationally [7].
However, how to measure the socio-economic impact of culture-related policy and
expenditure is still an open question. Conventionally, the investigation of socio-economic
deprivation for urban areas has largely relied on government statistics, with data generally
obtained through the traditional survey. It is usually costly to implement and takes a few years
to carry out each time. With an aim to overcome this limitation, researchers have recently started
to mine low-cost, real-time, and fine-grained new data sources for socio-economic deprivation
study. For instance, Eagle et al [3] discovered a high correlation between call network diversity
and urban area deprivation using call records data; Louail et al [8] showed the application of bank
card transaction data on socio-economic inequalities study in cities; Quercia et al [9] found the
topic of tweets and the deprivation level of urban areas are correlated; Smith et al [10] used Oyster
Card data to identify areas of high deprivation level in London; Quercia and Saez [11] explored
the relationship between the presence of certain Foursquare venues with social deprivation;
Venerandi et al [12] used Foursquare and OpenStreetMap datasets to explore the correlation
between urban elements and deprivation of neighbourhoods; And Hristova et al [13] discussed
the relationship between the prosperity of people and urban places, and distinguished between
different categories and urban geographies using Foursquare and Twitter data. In line with this
stream of research, we take advantage of the geo-social network data from Foursquare and show
its success in capturing and predicting the socio-economic change related to government cultural
expenditure which has vital implications for culture-led urban regeneration in neighbourhoods.
1
https://foursquare.com
More specifically, we utilise the spatial network of Foursuare venues formed by the trajectories 3
of users to track the changes of urban areas. The reason why such kind of geo-social network
data is used is because cities are complex systems where the effects of regeneration often grow
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
from the bottom up. Different from traditional analyses that have often adopted top-down
methodologies which largely ignore local features [14], network science, a bottom-up approach
in nature, provides opportunities to link behaviours of individuals together in a spatio-temporal
framework and enables significant insights in local physical and social transitions [14,15]. This
makes it possible to observe and understand the ever-changing dynamics of culture-led urban
regeneration at fine grain as government financial effort is put into developing urban areas.
Recently, some researchers have begun to take advantage of this certain type of data to understand
cities. In [16], Karamshuk et al focused on the problem of optimal retail store placement and
..............................................................
explored how the popularity of three retail store chains in New York is shaped; Georgiev et al [17]
extracted indicators of the spatial positioning of retailers as well as the mobility trends of users
to model the economic impact of the Olympic Games on local businesses in London; And Noulas
et al [18] investigated the topological properties of the urban place networks created by mobility
data across a large set of 100 cities globally and applied supervised learning algorithms to predict
new links between venues. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work in which collective
transition data from geo-social network is used in culture-led regeneration studies. The main
contributions of our work include:
• We propose an innovative approach to giving insights on underlying relationships between
socio-economic status, cultural investment and geo-social network properties using a fusion of
techniques, including network analysis, statistical analysis, and supervised machine learning.
• We demonstrate how datasets from government and geo-social network with different spatial
and temporal granularities can be analysed jointly and produce the inference of local socio-
economic change at finer temporal grain than official government statistics.
• We define new metrics on cultural investment and cultural features in geo-social networks to
measure the priority level of culture for urban areas and show how the differences in these
metrics reflect on the network properties of local areas.
• Applying traditional network metrics to the geo-social graph of transitions between venues
on Foursquare, we show that areas with high cultural investment and deprivation level
experience significant growth in the following years.
• We prove it feasible to adopt geographic, cultural expenditure, and geo-social network features
to predict the binary socio-economic deprivation change for small urban areas with high
prediction performance. Our evaluation shows the effectiveness of our prediction models with
AUC values of up to 0.85.
• We evaluate the predictive capability for different classifiers and features, with Naive Bayes
and random forests being the classification methods that give the best performance. In terms
of the prediction features that work best, geo-social network features as a whole are the most
powerful predictors.
Overall, our findings open new directions for the detection and prediction of socio-economic
conditions in urban environment through collective transition behaviours in geo-social networks.
The remainder of this work is structured as follows: after first describing the datasets and
metrics that are used, we run a preliminary analysis on London boroughs to get a general view
and lay a basis for further investigation. We then outline four hypotheses underpinning our
analyses grounded on the preliminary analysis and existing literature, which derive from two
key concerns: the relationships between urban socio-economic development, cultural investment,
and geo-social network features; the feasibility of predicting socio-economic development
through cultural expenditure, geo-social network, and geographic features. We then examine the
rationality of our hypotheses using ANOVA analysis and a supervised learning classification
framework. We conclude with a discussion, including contributions and limitations of our
findings.
2. Dataset 4
In this section, we describe datasets used for the study and present their basic properties. In total,
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
there are three major data sources, which are: socio-economic data, cultural expenditure data, and
Foursquare data.
(a) Socio-economic Data
The dataset used to evaluate socio-economic status for neighbourhoods is the English Indices
of Deprivation, an official measure of relative deprivation for small areas (Lower Super
Output Areas (LSOA2 )) in England calculated by the Department for Communities and
..............................................................
Local Government (DCLG). It is organised across seven sub domains (Health Deprivation
and Disability; Employment Deprivation; Income Deprivation; Education, Skills and Training
Deprivation; Crime; Barriers to Housing and Services; and Living Environment Deprivation),
offers deprivation scores for each and produces the Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD), which
reflects the overall deprivation level. This IMD is the index we particularly focus on in the study
to assess socio-economic status of London areas. It has been calculated since the 1970s, and is
updated every 3-5 years. The latest version of this index is the IMD 20153 , which updates the
previous version of the IMD 20104 . In this paper, we employ these two versions of the IMD to
track changes of deprivation levels, and thus to understand the socio-economic change of London
areas through a comparative analysis. In the published data, each LSOA in England is given an
IMD score and is ranked from the most deprived to the least deprived, allowing users to be aware
of how much more or less deprived an area compared to another. A range of summary measures
is also available for users to describe deprivation for higher-level geographies. It is worth noting
that the IMD scores are not directly comparable between years. However, it is possible to compare
IMD ranking changes for neighbourhoods between 2010 and 2015 versions to get a view of
whether an area became relatively worse or better in terms of socio-economic condition during
the period, and how large the change was. A more detailed explanation will be given in 3(a).
(b) Cultural Expenditure Data
The cultural expenditure data utilised in this work is the local authority revenue expenditure and
financing derived from DCLG5 . This dataset is based on returns from all 444 local authorities in
England, showing how they spend their money for each financial year. It provides information
about the local authority revenue spending on various service areas, one of which is ’cultural and
related services’. This specific category of cultural expenditure can be further divided into five
sub areas: culture and heritage, recreation and sport, open spaces, tourism, and library service. In
this study, revenue spending data for financial years 2010/11, 2011/12, and 2012/13 of all these
cultural sub areas are used.
(c) Foursquare Data
Alongside the two official datasets from government introduced above, we also employ user
mobility records and venue information of London through a three-year long dataset from
Foursquare. This location-based social network dataset contains ’transitions’ (successive pairs
of check-ins created by users) occurring within London from January 2011 to December 2013.
For each transition, venue IDs and timestamps of both origin and destination are recorded.
In addition, information of Foursquare venues including the geographic coordinates, category,
creation time and the total number of users that have check-in(s) at each venue is also available. In
total, there are 3,992,664 transitions generated between 17,804 venues in London during the study
2
https://data.london.gov.uk/dataset/statistical-gis-boundary-files-london
3
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/english-indices-of-deprivation-2015
4
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/english-indices-of-deprivation-2010
5
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/local-authority-revenue-expenditure-and-financing
period. In Figure 1, we map these Foursquare venues by parent categories with cultural venues 5
coloured. Here, cultural venues are defined and selected as urban places of arts, media, sports,
libraries, museums, parks, play, countryside, built heritage, tourism and creative industries,
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
following the line set by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister in Regeneration through Culture,
Sport and Tourism6 . As we can see from the figure, cultural venues tend to be situated in Inner
London than outer suburbs. It is also noticeable that the density of Foursquare cultural venues in
general is higher for West London than the east of the city.
..............................................................
Figure 1: Spatial Distribution of Foursquare Venues in London
The Foursquare dataset can be represented as a spatial network of venues connected by
transition flows of users for a certain period of time. It is a directed graph where nodes represent
start and end venues, while edges correspond to transitions. In the graph, two nodes are linked
if at least one trip exists between two venues during the time period. The weight of an edge
is proportional to the number of transitions made by all users between the two venues. Since
the timestamps of each transition is obtainable, we can study how links are created and how
network graph features are changing over time. As one would expect, investments need time to
attain an observable effect. The result of cultural expenditure, no matter on the organisation of
a music festival, the renovation of a library, or the construction of a new art gallery may take
days, months or years to be observable. Here, we assume the impact of cultural expenditure from
local authorities can be observed after 9 months on average through Foursquare. Based on this
assumption, expenditure and geo-social network data are compared according to time scales in
Table 1, where we look at annual snapshots of the data for different years. Formally, we define
our yearly dataset as a directed graph Gt = (Vt , Et ) for t = 1, 2, 3, which indicate three snapshots
in time of the dataset. The set of nodes Vt = {v1 , v2 , v3 , ..., vNt } is composed of Nt Foursquare
venues and the set of edges Et <U+2713> Vt <U+21E5> Vt is composed of pairs of venues that have at least one
transition generated between each other during time period t. An edge (vot , vdt ) 2 Et is called
a transition edge between vot and vdt , where vot represents the origin of the transition and vdt
represents the destination. The network properties for each year are shown in Table 2.
6
http://www.communities.gov.uk/archived/publications/localgovernment/regenerationthroughculture
6
Table 1: Comparison Table of Time Scales for Datasets
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
Expenditure dataset GSN dataset
Financial year 2010/11 (Apr 2010 - Mar 2011) Jan 2011 - Dec 2011
Financial year 2011/12 (Apr 2011 - Mar 2012) Jan 2012 - Dec 2012
Financial year 2012/13 (Apr 2012 - Mar 2013) Jan 2013 - Dec 2013
Table 2: Network Properties at Each Snapshot
..............................................................
t Duration |V | |E| hCi hki
1 January 2011 - December 2011 15832 469229 0.221 59
2 January 2012 - December 2012 16189 715113 0.228 70
3 January 2013 - December 2013 17684 742017 0.240 84
Number of Nodes |V |, Number of Edges |E|, Average Clustering Coefficient hCi, and
Average Degree hki.
(d) Spatial Unit of Data
Since the first two datasets are provided by government at different geographic levels initially,
here, we introduce the spatial units used in this research and demonstrate how they are applied in
our further investigation. This clarification is necessary since understanding how geo-referenced
data is aggregated spatially is key to linking the datasets used in the paper.
The two geographic levels of London areas used in this paper are borough and ward7 . In the
research, we perform our exploratory analysis on the aggregate borough level to have a first look
and then improve on geographic granularity by using wards as smaller localities for our statistical
evaluation and prediction. Here, the reason why ward is selected as the geographic unit for the
prediction is because it provides a sufficient training set size for supervised learning models,
which is unreachable for the borough (there are totally 32 boroughs and 625 wards in London). As
mentioned above, the IMD data is available at several geographic levels, including both borough
and ward, by consulting its official document. However, the DCLG only provides expenditure
data initially at borough level. We obtain the data for wards by dividing the cultural expenditure
of a borough by the number of wards it includes, assuming resources are spent proportionally.
As for Foursquare data, check-ins and venues are described at the level of latitude and longitude
coordinates. This fine grained spatial representation of activity at the Foursquare data layer allows
for standard geographic aggregation methods to be applied in order to attain representations at
the ward and borough levels, making therefore the linkage of the three datasets possible.
3. Metrics
Leveraging on the described data, we introduce a number of metrics highlighting the advantage
that certain neighbourhoods have in terms of cultural expenditure and the properties of geo-
social networks for local areas. We also compute a number of geographic features based on the
neighbourhood’s location and Foursquare venue information.
(a) Geographic Features
In Figure 2, we map the IMD change for London wards from 2010 to 2015 with sub region
information provided. Here, we firstly rank the wards according to their IMD scores from the
most deprived to the least in 2010 and 2015, respectively. Then, we subtract the rank in 2010 from
7
https://data.london.gov.uk/dataset/statistical-gis-boundary-files-london
that in 2015 for each ward to look at the change, based on which, wards are coloured blue or red, 7
according to whether they became more deprived or less deprived from 2010 to 2015. The larger
the change, the darker the shade. From the result, we can see that the ward that experienced the
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
largest improvement locates in East London with an increase of 212 in the IMD ranking. On the
other hand, the rank of a ward in Central London dropped most significantly by a number of
190. We can also observe from Figure 2 that areas with similar IMD ranking changes tend to be
spatially clustered. And neighbourhoods showing larger improvements in terms of the overall
deprivation level are more likely to be in East London. These findings suggest that geographic
factors can have an influence on the deprivation level change of urban areas. In this case, we
involve a number of geographic features as metrics, including the sub region a ward belongs to,
its area size, and how far it is from the city centre.
..............................................................
Figure 2: Map of IMD Change for London Wards and Sub Regions
In addition, some metrics about Foursquare venues with their geographic properties
considered are also given, including the number of venues created (VC) and venue created density
(VCD). Different from the concept of node we described in the previous section, VC is defined as
the total number of venues emerging in an area during a certain period of time and estimated on
the basis of creation time information obtained from Foursquare venue profiles. To divide the VC
by area size, we get VCD, which represents the average number of new venues created in an urban
area per square kilometre.
(b) Network Metrics
The network measures applied in this research are in-degree centrality (IC), out-degree centrality
(OC), in-degree/out-degree ratio (IOR), and average clustering coefficient (ACC). In-degree
centrality of an area i represents how many in-flow transitions the nodes of area i receive from
nodes of other areas. In contrast, out-degree centrality measures how many out-flow transitions
start from i, but flow to other areas. We also introduce a metric called IOR, which indicates the
ratio of in-flow transitions over out-flow transitions. If the IOR of an area is high, it means the
area is more likely to be an attractive place to visit for people from other places. For area i, the
IOR can be calculated by:
ICi 8
IORi = (3.1)
OCi
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
The local clustering coefficient captures the degree to which the neighbours of a given node are
connected with each other. For a node i with degree ki , the local clustering coefficient [19] is
defined as:
Li
Ci = (3.2)
ki (ki 1)
where Li represents the number of edges between the ki neighbours of node i. Then, the average
clustering coefficient, which reflects the overall level of clustering in an area is measured as the
..............................................................
average of the local clustering coefficients of all the nodes in it.
(c) Growth Rate
We also introduce growth rate metrics for some features to present changes of urban areas. Take
growth rate of nodes (GRN ) as an example, we define this metric to reveal the temporal change
of nodes in geo-social network graphs. If the number of nodes we observe in a network snapshot
during a year period (t 1) is Nt 1 , and a number of Nt in the subsequent time period t, we
calculate the GRN of graph for t as:
Nt
GRNt = (3.3)
Nt 1
In a similar way, other growth rates measures listed in Table 3 can be obtained.
(d) Cultural Advantage Metrics
In order to measure how the cultural level of a neighbourhood is higher or lower than the
average city, we introduce two cultural advantage metrics which rely instead on the concept of
location quotients in economic geography. Location quotients capture regional industry specifics
by comparing an area’s business composition to that of a larger geographic context (i.e., state or
nation) and can be calculated by the following formula:
P j
! 1
qij i2I qi
LQji =P j
· P P j
(3.4)
j2J qi i2I j2J qi
In the equation, LQji represents location quotients for each industry j and for each region i; qij
denotes the gross output of industry j in region i; I and J are the sets of regions and industries,
respectively. Here, the values of location quotients vary by region due to its industry makeup and
can be interpreted through comparing with 1. If the value is greater than 1, it signalises that the
concentration of a certain industry in a particular region is higher than average level and a value
less than 1 indicates the industry is relatively scarce in that region [20,21].
(i) Cultural Expenditure Advantage
Inspired by industry location quotient, we define a metric called cultural expenditure advantage
(CEA) to evaluate the priority of cultural expenditure for a neighbourhood in the city. This metric
reflects the extent to which a local authority spends more on culture than the city average level.
The CEA for area i in the city can be represented as:
<U+2713>P <U+25C6> 1
CEi CEi
CEAi = · Pi2I (3.5)
T Ei i2I T Ei
where CEi is the amount of cultural expenditure of neighbourhood i; T Ei is the amount of total
expenditure of i; and I is the set of neighbourhoods in the city. Through comparing CEA with 1,
whether the cultural expenditure of an area is higher than the city average can be evaluated.
9
Table 3: Description of the Variables Used in the Analyses
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
Category Metric Description Application
Initial IMD Initial IMD Rank of IMD at the beginning P [H3]
Sub Region Sub-region of London where a ward locates [H3]
Area Size of a ward (km2 ) [H3]
Distance Distance from the centre of London to spatial [H3]
centre of a ward (km)
Geographic VC Number of venues created in an area P [H1] [H2]
VCD Number of venues created in an area per km2 [H1] [H2]
..............................................................
CVA Extent to which an area provides more cultural P
venues than city average
GRVC Growth rate of venues created number [H3]
N Number of nodes for an area [H1] [H2]
IC Number of in-flow transitions an area receives P [H1] [H2]
from other areas
OC Number of out-flow transitions an area P [H1] [H2]
receives from other areas
IOR Ratio of number of in-flow transitions over out- [H1] [H2]
flow transitions
Network ACC Degree to which nodes in a ward tend to [H1] [H2]
clustering together
GRN Growth rate of number of nodes [H3]
GRI Growth rate of number of in-flow transitions [H3]
GRO Growth rate of number of on-flow transitions [H3]
GRIOR Growth rate of ratio of in-flow transitions over [H3]
out-flow transitions
GRACC Growth rate of average clustering coefficient [H3]
CE Expenditure on cultural and related services P
CEA Extent to which an area spends more on culture P [H3]
than city average
Cultural CEOP Expenditure on open spaces per capita [H3]
Expenditure CECH Expenditure on culture and heritable per capita [H3]
CELS Expenditure on library services per capita [H3]
CERS Expenditure on recreation and sport per capita [H3]
CET Expenditure on tourism per capita [H3]
P represents preliminary analysis.
(ii) Cultural Venue Advantage
Similar as the CEA defined previously, a metric of cultural venue advantage (CV A) is given
to reflect the extent to which a neighbourhood has more cultural venues than the city average.
Here, cultural venues includes 8 major categories of Foursquare culture-related places presented
in Figure 1. The CV A for neighbourhood i can be defined as:
<U+2713>P <U+25C6> 1
CVi CVi
CV Ai = · Pi2I (3.6)
T Vi i2I T Vi
where CVi is the number of cultural venues in i and T Vi is the total number of venues in i.
A summary of all the metrics used in following analyses and tests are listed in Table 3 with
their categories, descriptions, and where they are applied in this work provided.
4. Preliminary Analysis 10
The exploration of relationships between the IMD, cultural expenditure, and network graph
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
features is the foundation of our prediction task for the socio-economic deprivation change. Before
discussing it in more depth on a finer spatial scale, we run a preliminary analysis on London
boroughs in this section to visualise the relationship patterns and provide evidence for further
investigation.
In this part of analysis, we investigate how areas with different deprivation levels spent their
money on culture at the start of our observation period, how they adjusted their priorities in the
following years, and how their network graphs changed accordingly. Firstly, Figure 3 is created
to reveal the initial relationship between the IMD score and cultural advantage metrics (CEA
..............................................................
and CV A) in 2010. In this figure, the colour bar on the right presents the IMD score of London
boroughs in 2010, where yellow means more deprived and purple indicates less deprived. The
IMD score is represented by the circle size, where the larger the circle, the higher level of
deprivation the area. In addition, we partition the figure at CEA = 1 and CV A = 1. Through
these two axes across the 1, Figure 3 is split into quadrants, allowing us to see where boroughs
with different deprivation levels are centralised. As we can observe from this plot, yellow circles
cluster in the middle/lower part, suggesting more deprived boroughs spent relatively less on
culture-related services and showed average cultural venue advantage at the beginning of the
study.
Figure 3: Initial IMD Score, CEA, and CVA of London Borough
Then, in Figure 4, we discuss how London boroughs spent their money on culture in the
next two years, and how their network and local properties changed. It can be observed that
yellow circles, which represent more deprived boroughs, show at the upper right of the charts. In
contrast, purple circles, which stand for well-off areas, present in the lower left part of the plots.
These signals suggest that compared to prosperous areas, deprived neighbourhoods in London
spent more money on culture and had larger number of venues created, and higher in-degree
centrality and out-degree centrality showed from 2011 to 2013. Additionally, these trends were
more obvious among most and least deprived boroughs compared to average ones.
Through the above analysis, we find that initial deprivation level and cultural expenditure
strategy may influence the local network graph of urban areas. Furthermore, investing more in
cultural and related services seems to have the ability to boost local development for deprived
areas.
11
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
..............................................................
Figure 4: Culture Expenditure, and Foursquare Features Changes of London Boroughs
Table 4: Groups of London Wards in ANOVA Analyses
Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4
Initial IMD Less deprived More deprived More deprived Less deprived
CEA More advantaged Less advantaged More advantaged Less advantaged
Number 160 192 88 114
In the following sections, the question will be discussed in greater depth by improving on
spatial and temporal granularity, and involving statistical and machine learning techniques.
To prepare for the analysis, we distinguish London’s neighbourhoods on the basis of cultural
expenditure priority and the deprivation level. Specifically, wards are firstly grouped into two
categories, more deprived and less deprived, according to whether their IMD 2010 deprivation
level is higher or lower than the city average. Then, the two groups are further classified according
to their cultural spending priorities. If the CEA of a ward is more than 1, it is clustered into the
more advantaged groups; otherwise, it is put into the less advantaged groups. On the basis of
these rules, we can identify four groups of cases outlined in Table 4 and mapped in Figure 5.
The two largest groups are Group 2 and Group 1, which include 192 and 160 wards, respectively.
Again, at ward level, it indicates that less deprived areas tend to be more cultural advantaged, and
more deprived areas tend to be less cultural advantaged. We can also observe that the majority of
wards in Group 2, which are more deprived and less advantaged in cultural spending, are located
in East London. The relationship patterns between deprivation level, cultural expenditure, and
network properties discovered in this preliminary analysis part lead to our hypotheses in the next
section. And the four distinct groups of the neighbourhoods will be referred to in our following
hypotheses evaluation.
5. Hypotheses
In order to explore the role that geo-social network data can play in culture-led urban regeneration
study, we firstly reveal the underlying relationships between socio-economic status, local cultural
expenditure, and geo-social network graph. As a base condition, we expect that different socio-
economic conditions and amounts of cultural expenditure in neighbourhoods will lead to
different network properties in the geo-social graph. Therefore, we hypothesise that:
[H1] Areas with high cultural investment and deprivation level have significantly different network
and local properties from areas with low cultural investment and deprivation level.
12
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
Figure 5: Spatial Distribution of Ward Groups in London ..............................................................
This assertion lays the foundation of further investigation into the nature of culture-led
urban regeneration, where based on existing case studies from literature [1] and our preliminary
analysis, we expect that cultural investment in more deprived areas results in growth. Specifically:
[H2] Areas with high cultural investment and deprivation level experience significant growth with
respect to network and local properties from areas with low cultural investment and deprivation level.
Additionally, network studies have shown great potential in reflecting socio-economic
conditions in communication networks and the prediction of deprivation [3]. Based on this
existing knowledge, we propose that network features such as centrality and clustering
coefficient, combined with geographic and cultural expenditure factors are able to predict local
socio-economic changes. We put forward the following two hypotheses to this end:
[H3] Network features of areas together with cultural expenditure and geographic features are
powerful signals in predicting socio-economic change.
[H4] Network features of areas are better predictors of improvement than expenditure and
geographic features.
6. Evaluation & Results
In the following hypotheses evaluation, London’s neighbourhoods will be studied at ward level
and grouped according to Table 4 before two types of ANOVA analyses are run. We aim to get
a deeper understanding of the relationship patterns we found at borough level, and test how
they vary between ward groups and different time periods. We evaluate the last two hypotheses
using a prediction framework, which allows us to reason about the predictive power of different
features described in the metrics section.
(a) [H1] Network and Local Properties
To test the [H1], we employ independent one-way ANOVA to examine whether a statistically
significant difference is found in terms of a set of network and local features between different
ward groups. The value used for each feature is the average for the three years from 2011 to 2013.
From the output results, we can see that there are significant effects of groups on six features 13
at the p < .05 level. The feature that distinguishes less and more deprived groups is the average
clustering coefficient with a statistically significant main effect of F (3, 550) = 4.15, p = .006. This
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
shows that neighbourhoods from different socio-economic status groups presented significantly
different clustering patterns in their network graphs. Furthermore, through taking a comparison
between groups in Figure 6, we find that less deprived wards (Group 1 and Group 4) have higher
means of average clustering coefficient than more deprived ones (Group 2 and Group 3), which
illustrates that venues in less deprived areas are more likely to cluster together. Group 1, which
represents less deprived and more cultural spending advantaged neighbourhoods, is the only
group that exceeds the average of all wards (red dashed line in the figure).
..............................................................
Figure 6: Means Plot for Average Clustering Coefficient in Independent One-way ANOVA
Analysis
The other five features that show statistically significant effects reveal differences between
cultural advantaged and disadvantaged groups. The means of these five factors for different
groups are plotted in Figure 7, from which we can find areas that gave a higher priority to culture
(Group 1 and Group 3) had larger venue created number, node number, in-degree centrality,
out-degree centrality, and venue created density on average. Moreover, Group 3, that was more
deprived but invested relatively larger amount of money in culture from financial year 2010/11 to
2012/13, had the highest means in most cases. This result indicates that putting more effort into
culture can lead to the stimulation of local business and the enhancement of vitality for urban
areas. Additionally, a more striking effect can probably be seen in more deprived areas.
Figure 7: Means Plots for Variables with Statistically Significant Effects between Cultural
Advantaged and Disadvantaged Groups in Independent One-way ANOVA Analysis
Through One-way ANOVA analysis, we find that urban areas of different socio-economic
status and cultural investment priorities vary in terms of local network features. Furthermore,
areas with high cultural investment and deprivation level show significantly different values in 14
network and local properties from those areas with low cultural investment and deprivation level,
which suggests that [H1] is true.
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
(b) [H2] Growth of Network and Local Properties
After discussing about the differences between groups on average, we test whether different
groups of areas experienced significantly different growth patterns with respect to network
and local properties in this subsection. Technically, we examine whether there are statistically
significant differences between years and whether interaction effects exist between our two main
factors, group and time, by factorial repeated measures ANOVA analysis.
..............................................................
We present the means plots of five dependent variables that show statistically significant
effects in Figure 8. From these plots, it can also be found that Group 1 and Group 3, which
gave a high priority to culture had dramatic advantages in terms of almost all the features
during the three years. Then, to consider the groups separately, Group 3 (more deprived and
more advantaged in cultural investment) is still the one that had highest means in general,
while Group 4 (less deprived and less advantaged) is the lowest with respect to all the features.
These results demonstrate that significant differences not only exist between ward groups, but
also show between different time points. It also reveals that the advantage of culture-supporting
areas in various local and network properties is a dynamic and continuous process rather than an
occasional phenomenon shown in a single year.
Moreover, significant interaction effects between group and year are found in three features:
venue created density (p = .008), in-degree centrality (p = .038), and out-degree centrality (p =
.037). We then run pairwise comparisons between different years and find that each pair of time
points are observed to have statistical significance on venue created density, which reinforces that
significant changes exist between years on this feature. As for the two centrality metrics, Group 1
differed significantly from Group 2 and Group 3, suggesting that less deprived neighbourhoods
that spent more money on culture experienced significantly different changes with regard to in-
flow and out-flow transitions compared to more deprived neighbourhoods.
Figure 8: Means Plots for Variables with Statistically Significant Effects in Factorial Repeated
Measures ANOVA Analysis
With the help of factorial repeated measures ANOVA in this subsection, we detect how the
growth of network and local properties varied between groups and time points. We confirm [H2]
by finding that areas with high cultural investment and deprivation level experience significant
growth with respect to network and local properties from areas with lower cultural investment
and deprivation level. The interaction effect between group and time discovered can be further
studied to explore whether there was a major culture-related policy or investment taking effect in
certain group at certain time point.
In summary, the ANOVA analysis results for wards presented in the evaluation of [H1] and
[H2] confirm the trend that we observed in the preliminary analysis for boroughs. Significant
differences show in geo-social network variables between groups, time points, as well as their 15
interaction effects, suggesting that urban areas with different socio-economic situations and
cultural investment attitudes present different network graph patterns. Generally, investing more
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
in culture is able to promote the growth of network graph in several ways. Additionally, this effect
is more evident for those more deprived areas.
Building on the findings from preliminary and ANOVA analyses, we introduce a supervised
learning framework which exploits the prediction features displayed in Table 3 to predict IMD
changes for London wards next. We assess whether our prediction features from three main
categories of geographic, cultural expenditure, and network can be combined to build prediction
models with good performance as a response to [H3]. Followed by the overall evaluation of
classification models, our focus turns to explore the predictive power of different feature classes,
..............................................................
especially the network feature set to test [H4].
(c) [H3] Prediction Model and Overall Evaluation
In this subsection, we establish prediction models for the IMD change and discuss the
performance of various methods on different neighbourhood sets.
The target feature of our prediction is the binary IMD change in 2015 compared to the initial
condition in 2010, which can either become more deprived or less deprived. We propose a
supervised learning approach to tackle this binary classification problem: for each ward, we
collect its initial IMD rank in 2010 and basic geographic features; We calculate the average local
cultural expenditure of five kinds and the average CEA during financial years from 2010/11
to 2012/13; Also, we compute local and network metrics for the beginning and end snapshots
of 2011 and 2013, respectively, before calculating multiple growth rate features. The full list of
prediction features we adopt to discriminate areas that are more or less likely became better or
worse in terms of socio-economic condition has been presented in Table 3. After all these values
are collected and calculated, we train classifiers and use a stratified 10-fold cross validation as
the evaluation approach. The supervised learning methods we implement are classification tree,
random forest, logistic regression, and Naive Bayes using the algorithms in library Scikit-learn8 .
After models are trained and established, we employ the AUC value, the average accuracy, and
the average precision as measures to evaluate prediction performance for our classifiers. Precision
is the fraction of positive predictions that are correct. Accuracy represents the proportion of the
total number of predictions that are correct. AUC, which is not as intuitive as previous two
measures, stands for area under ROC (receiver operating characteristic) curve and is commonly
used as a measure of the overall quality of binary classification models. Its value lies between 0.5
to 1, where a random classifier has a AUC of 0.5 and a perfect classifier’s AUC is equal to 1 [22].
Instead of only focusing on the whole set of London’s wards, we also class them according to
how large their IMD rank changes are from 2010 to 2015, so as to discuss whether the prediction
effectiveness varies when looking at areas with different IMD changes. In Figure 9, we present the
IMD change distribution of wards in London. As we can see from the figure on the left, the IMD
change of the whole ward set is normally distributed. Even though there are 625 London wards in
total, 385 wards that have data available for all the prediction features are involved. The number
of wards for each subset is also presented in Figure 9 on the right. Due to the consideration
of sufficient sample size for our supervised learning models, besides the whole ward set, four
subsets are also chosen to run the test, which are wards with the IMD rank change larger than 10,
larger than 20, larger than 30, and larger than 40, respectively.
Overall, our prediction results shown in Figure 10 reveal that the inclusion of network, cultural
expenditure, and geographic features offers high prediction performance by giving AUC scores
over 0.7 for almost all the classifiers. And the best prediction performance shows when we look
at wards with the IMD rank change larger than 40 using Naive Bayes, that the AUC reaches 0.865.
As for the accuracy and precision measures, the scores are also higher than 0.7 in general.
8
http://scikit-learn.org/stable/index.html
16
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
..............................................................
Figure 9: Distribution of the IMD Change for London Wards
In addition, for different ward sets, we observe that it shows a rising tendency for all
the classifiers in terms of evaluation measures in Figure 10. This finding suggests that better
prediction results can be achieved from wards that have larger IMD changes. The reason for this
is probably that neighbourhoods which experienced larger IMD changes showed more evident
changes in local and network properties, making their socio-economic changes easier to be
predicted.
When comparing the performance between different classifiers, we can see that Naive Bayes
and random forest outperform the other two methods with high values in terms of all the three
metrics. Followed by Naive Bayes and random forest, logistic regression performs slightly worse,
whereas classification tree presents lowest values. While we have not explored exhaustively
initialisation parameters of the four classifiers, what is important with regards to the goals of the
present work, is that their performance evolves steadily with respect to the feature exploration
we are demonstrating next.
Figure 10: Evaluation for Supervised Prediction Methods on Different Ward Sets
The high performance of our models presented by overall evaluation result shows the
feasibility and superiority of utilising network features together with cultural expenditure and
geographic features to predict the IMD change for urban areas [H3]. This desired outcome once
again proves that crowdsourced data can play a significant role in socio-economic deprivation
prediction instead of expensive census data.
(d) [H4] Individual Features Evaluation
After evaluating the overall performance of prediction models, we investigate the predictive
power of individual features in this part of analysis.
Firstly, we study the predictive power of each individual feature in the prediction model. We 17
take random forest classifier as an example and compute relative importance for each feature,
which is determined in terms of the gini index [23]. In Figure 11, we can see that CEA (cultural
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
expenditure advantage) plays the most significant role, being the only feature with an importance
score over 0.1. It is followed by features GRIOR (growth rate of ratio of in-degree centrality over
out-degree centrality) and CEOP (expenditure on open spaces per capita) with values around
0.09. While for the last two features, Sub region (sub-region of London where a ward locates) and
GRVC (growth rate of venues created number), the importance scores are less than 0.03.
..............................................................
Figure 11: Relative Importance Evaluation for Each Feature in Random Forest Classification
Next, in order to understand to which extent different feature classes are contributing to the
prediction, we test what prediction performance can be achieved by removing one feature class
with respect to the full model. The prediction results of these new models with two feature classes
considered in each are shown in Figure 12. From the figure, we can see that geographic features
make the smallest contribution to prediction models, as the reduction of prediction effectiveness
is least when they are removed. In contrast, network features as a whole are the strongest signal
to predict the IMD change [H4].
Figure 12: Evaluation for Supervised Prediction Methods on Different Feature Sets
In conclusion, we present the feasibility and effectiveness of using geo-social network, cultural
expenditure, and geographic features to infer whether the socio-economic status gets better or
worth for small urban areas in the evaluation of [H3] and [H4]. The results of our prediction
models are favourable with AUC scores higher than 0.7 in general. Moreover, the prediction
performance sees an improvement when we focus on neighbourhoods that have larger IMD
changes, and employ Naive Bayes and Random Forest classifiers. To evaluate the prediction
contribution of features separately, network is the category that plays the most significant role
in the prediction and cultural expenditure advantage is the most powerful individual feature.
7. Discussion & Conclusions 18
In this work, we have investigated the socio-economic impact of cultural expenditure on London
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
neighbourhoods, visible through the lens of location-based mobile data. Finding evidence of the
regenerative effects of such investment in local areas, we take a step further by trying to predict
socio-economic impact based on geographic, network and cultural expenditure features. Overall,
we have put forth evidence of the potential of using geo-social data for detecting and predicting
the impact of culture-led regeneration strategies. This has a number of significant implications for
location-based mobile systems, local governments and policy makers alike.
Firstly, we have explored the relationship between socio-economic condition, cultural
investment, and geo-social network graph, finding that spending more on culture can lead
..............................................................
to an improvement of local development, especially for more deprived neighbourhoods. This
observation verifies the effectiveness of implementing cultural strategies in urban regeneration
project, and illustrates that culture-led regeneration policies are more suitable for underprivileged
areas. On the basis of this finding, we suggest governments and policy makers taking socio-
economic condition into consideration as an important factor when implementing cultural
strategies to promote local development. Furthermore, our research has presented geo-social
network data’s ability to enrich or even replace traditional census-based deprivation statistics by
proposing a supervised learning framework for predicting the outcome of cultural investment in
London neighbourhoods. Although at present we perform our evaluation on annual snapshots,
which nevertheless improves on current 5-year government census statistics, our future work
will involve higher temporal resolution in order to explore these effects even further. Moreover,
integrating predictive growth modelling in current urban planning systems could significantly
help the government decide on the amount of cultural expenditure and along with geo-social
network metrics, predict the impact of such investments.
One notable limitation of our research is that Foursquare data as well as other social media
data in general is shown to be biased towards more central than peripheral parts of the city
and often omits significant portions of the population who might be more deprived. Also, the
Foursquare venues cannot represent the entire set of urban places exactly as how they present in
the city, but they undeniably provide us an inspirational view to understand cities in fine grained
spatio-temporal contexts. In our case, Foursquare data make it possible to observe culture-led
regeneration policies taking place and detect their effects. Furthermore, it has been shown to
have interesting potential of uncovering gentrification processes in the city where more affluent
residents tracked by Foursquare might replace the local deprived population [13]. Additionally,
cultural activities have been widely associated with benefits related to health, well-being and
prosperity [24]. One possible future application of our research is to the location-based application
domain where recommendation systems can make use of geo-social and public data to help direct
users to areas of ’cultural buzz’ [25]. In addition, although there are many other factors to take into
account with regards to neighbourhood properties, our network and cultural advantage features
provide the potential to also build a recommendation engine for residential neighbourhoods and
where to buy property. As a whole, our work aims to shed light on the practicality of such future
applications and invites further research into the exploration of culture-led urban development
using digital traces.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank Foursquare for supporting this research by providing the dataset
employed in the analysis.
Ethics. No special ethical permit or assessment was requested. Our paper does not involve
animal ethics and fieldwork.
Data Accessibility. There are totally three data sources used in our research. In
the dataset section, we describe these datasets and introduce their basic properties.
Among them, the two official datasets can be download from the government’s websites 19
(https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/english-indices-of-deprivation-2010,
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/english-indices-of-deprivation-2015,
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/local-authority-revenue-expenditure-and-financing).
The Foursquare dataset has been shared by the company through an official agreement with the
University of Cambridge that we have no authority to redistribute it.
Competing Interests. The authors declare no competing interests.
Authors’ Contributions. X. Zhou, D. Hristova, A. Noulas, C. Mascolo designed the study
together. X. Zhou carried out the data analysis, interpreted the results and wrote the manuscript;
D. Hristova helped to draft and edit the paper; A. Noulas gave many suggestions, especially on
the prediction part; C. Mascolo coordinated the study and helped to draft the manuscript; and M.
..............................................................
Sklar helped with the Foursquare data. All authors gave final approval for publication.
Funding. Xiao Zhou is sponsored by the China Scholarship Council and the Cambridge Trust.
References
1. González S. 2011. Bilbao and Barcelona ’in motion’. How urban regeneration ’models’ travel
and mutate in the global flows of policy tourism. Urban Studies 48(7), 1397-1418.
2. Vickery J. 2007. The emergence of culture-led regeneration: A policy concept and its
discontents. Coventry: University of Warwick. Centre for Cultural Policy Studies. Research
papers, Vol.9.
3. Eagle N, Macy M, Claxton R. 2010. Network diversity and economic development. Science.
328(5981), 1029-1031.
4. Keddie J. 2014. Negotiating urban change in gentrifying London: experiences of long-term
residents and early gentrifiers in Bermondsey, PhD thesis, The London School of Economics
and Political Science (LSE).
5. Webber R. 2007. The metropolitan habitus: its manifestations, locations, and consumption
profiles, Environment and Planning A 39(1), 182-207.
6. Sassen S. 2001 The global city: New york, London, Tokyo. Princeton University Press.
7. London local government’s support for arts and culture a brief overview. See
https://www.londoncouncils.gov.uk/download/file/fid/3634.
8. Louail T, Lenormand M, Murillo Arias, J, Ramasco J. J. 2017 Crowdsourcing the Robin Hood
effect in cities., Applied Network Science 2,11
9. Quercia D, Seaghdha D, Crowcroft J. 2012 Talk of the city: Our tweets, our community
happiness. In Proceedings of the 6th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media.
10. Smith C, Mashhadi A, Capra L. 2013 Ubiquitous sensing for mapping poverty in developing
countries. Paper submitted to the Orange D4D Challenge.
11. Quercia D, Saez D. 2014 Mining urban deprivation from foursquare: Implicit crowdsourcing
of city land use. IEEE Pervasive Computing. 13(2), 30-36.
12. Venerandi A, Quattrone G, Capra L, Quercia D, Saez-Trumper D. 2015 Measuring urban
deprivation from user generated content. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Computer
Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing. 254-264.
13. Hristova D, Williams MJ, Musolesi M, Panzarasa P, Mascolo C. 2016 Measuring Urban Social
Diversity Using Interconnected Geo-Social Networks. In Proceedings of the 25th International
Conference on World Wide Web. 21-30.
14. Luo X. and Sun L. 2014 Community parks in the central area in Nanjing. Science of Agriculture.
20(4), 120-123.
15. Batty M. 2013 The New Science of Cities. Cambridge. Massachusetts: MIT Press.
16. Karamshuk D, Noulas A, Scellato S, Nicosia V, Mascolo C. 2013 Geo-spotting: mining online
location-based services for optimal retail store placement. In Proceedings of the 19th ACM
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. 793-801. ACM.
17. Georgiev P, Noulas A, Mascolo C. 2014 Where businesses thrive: Predicting the impact of the
Olympic games on local retailers through location-based services data. In Proceedings of 8th
international AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media.
18. Noulas A, Shaw B, Lambiotte R, Mascolo C. 2015 Topological properties and temporal
dynamics of place networks in urban environments. In Proceedings of the 24th International
Conference on World Wide Web. 431-441. ACM.
19. Watts DJ, Strogatz SH. 1998 Collective dynamics of ’small-world’ networks. nature 393(6684), 20
440-442.
20. Miller R. and Blair P. 2009 Input-Output Analysis: Foundations and Extensions, 2nd ed.
rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org R. Soc. open sci. 0000000
Cambridge, Cambridge University Press.
21. Marlies HS. 2017 Australia’s regional innovation systems: inter-industry interaction in
innovative activities in three Australian territories. Economic Systems Research 29(3), 357-384.
22. Hastie TJ, Tibshirani RJ, Friedman JH. 2011 The elements of statistical learning: data mining,
inference, and prediction. Springer.
23. Breiman L, Friedman J, Stone CJ, Olshen RA. 1984 Classification and regression trees. CRC press.
24. Guetzkow J. 2002 How the arts impact communities: An introduction to the literature on arts
impact studies. Paper prepared for the Taking the Measure of Culture Conference, Princeton
University, New Jersey, June 7-8. Retrieved August 5, 2005.
..............................................................
25. Currid E, Williams S. 2009 The geography of buzz: Art, culture and the social milieu in Los
Angeles and New York. Journal of Economic Geography. lbp032.
Society Open
