Trophic interactions between larger crocodylians and giant
tortoises on Aldabra Atoll, Western Indian Ocean, during the
Late Pleistocene
Torsten M. Scheyer, Massimo Delfino, Nicole Klein, Nancy Bunbury, Frauke Fleischer-
Dogley and Dennis M. Hansen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171800.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171800
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 November 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 4 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171800.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (David Schwimmer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Good paper overall: I especially like the sketches at the end. I have a few technical or language
changes to recommend:
p. 2, line 35 and elsewhere: "late Pleistocene" should be thus: the subdivisions of epochs are
usually not capitalized.
p. 3, line 42: all of the "mammalians" cited are mammals, so simply call them that.
p. 4, line 15: change "eosuchian" to "eusuchian."
p. 5, line 10: delete "as in globidentans."
p. 5, lines 28-37: this is a run-on sentence. Also the usual appellation is "the Bahamas."
p. 6, line 37: place "only" before "postzygapophyses."
p. 7, line 8: "Airscribe" is a brand name. If it was another brand, refer to it as an "air abrasion toot"
p. 7, line 10: "Nikon" should be thus, not all caps.
p. 11, line 61: "crocodylian" should be thus.
p. 17, line 14: Drumheller and Brochu in Palaios v. 31 is from 2016, not 2014. I happen to know
this paper well, so I caught this. I have not gone through the other citations but I suggest double-
checking all of them.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Christopher Brochu)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript describes crocodile and tortoise remains from Aldabra Atoll. The croc material
is too fragmentary to reliably identify more precisely than Crocodylia (see below), but it comes
from larger animals than previously reported from the island. The tortoise material preserves
lesions consistent with perimortem bites from a crocodile, which illuminates some aspects of
predator-prey relationships in the late Pleistocene of Aldabra.
3
This is a good manuscript; I only have a few comments/thoughts:
1. As far as I know, epochs don’t have formal epochs; thus, the “late” in “late Pleistocene” should
not be capitalized.
2. I’m not sure we can refer this material more precisely than Crocodylia. An alligatorid is very
unlikely, but referrals should be based on the specimens and not reliant on biogeographic
arguments.
Although the material might be from an osteolaemine, we can rule out V. robustus. The dorsal
surface of the region of the skull represented by the fragment in Fig. 2c bears tuberosities in V.
robustus not apparent on this specimen.
3. Would it be possible to characterize the neurocentral sutures? They look closed in Fig. 2, but
would rather have this assessed by the authors who have seen the specimens first-hand.
4. Figure 3b seems to indicate a partial squamosal as well as the frontal-postorbital fragment
discussed in the text. Was such an object actually recovered? If so, can it be figured?
Additional minor comments:
p. 3, line 44/45 – Diplocynodon is not known from North America, so it is unlikely to have left
bite marks on anything there. (Diplocynodon has been reported in North American deposits, but
all such occurrences are referable to other taxa, usually Borealosuchus.)
p. 4, lines 10/11 and 17/18 – Allodaposuchus is not a member of Crocodylia; “crocodyliform”
would be better here.
p. 4, line 15/16 – “eosuchian” should be “eusuchian”
p. 4, line 30/31 – semicolon should be a comma
p. 6, line 42/43 – “as well as” should be “and”
p. 6, line 54/55 – “e.g.” would be more appropriate than “i.e.” in this context.
p. 8, line 23/24 – “encountered” is not needed in this sentence
p. 9, line 35/36 – “squamosal’s” should be “squamosals” or “squamosal”
p. 10, second line – sentence should end with a period rather than a question mark.
p. 11, bottom – “crocodilian” should be “crocodylian”
p. 12, line 42/43 – “to today’s” should be “from that of today”
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Stephanie Drumheller)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
4
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see the attached file. (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171800)
27-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Scheyer
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171800 entitled
"Trophic interactions between larger crocodylians and giant tortoises on Aldabra Atoll, Western
Indian Ocean, during the Late Pleistocene" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
5
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171800
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 06-Dec-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
6
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Julia Brenda Desojo (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
7
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Dear authors, please, see the comments of the 3 reviewers.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Good paper overall: I especially like the sketches at the end. I have a few technical or language
changes to recommend:
p. 2, line 35 and elsewhere: "late Pleistocene" should be thus: the subdivisions of epochs are
usually not capitalized.
p. 3, line 42: all of the "mammalians" cited are mammals, so simply call them that.
p. 4, line 15: change "eosuchian" to "eusuchian."
p. 5, line 10: delete "as in globidentans."
p. 5, lines 28-37: this is a run-on sentence. Also the usual appellation is "the Bahamas."
p. 6, line 37: place "only" before "postzygapophyses."
p. 7, line 8: "Airscribe" is a brand name. If it was another brand, refer to it as an "air abrasion toot"
p. 7, line 10: "Nikon" should be thus, not all caps.
p. 11, line 61: "crocodylian" should be thus.
p. 17, line 14: Drumheller and Brochu in Palaios v. 31 is from 2016, not 2014. I happen to know
this paper well, so I caught this. I have not gone through the other citations but I suggest double-
checking all of them.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This manuscript describes crocodile and tortoise remains from Aldabra Atoll. The croc material
is too fragmentary to reliably identify more precisely than Crocodylia (see below), but it comes
from larger animals than previously reported from the island. The tortoise material preserves
lesions consistent with perimortem bites from a crocodile, which illuminates some aspects of
predator-prey relationships in the late Pleistocene of Aldabra.
This is a good manuscript; I only have a few comments/thoughts:
1. As far as I know, epochs don’t have formal epochs; thus, the “late” in “late Pleistocene” should
not be capitalized.
2. I’m not sure we can refer this material more precisely than Crocodylia. An alligatorid is very
unlikely, but referrals should be based on the specimens and not reliant on biogeographic
arguments.
Although the material might be from an osteolaemine, we can rule out V. robustus. The dorsal
surface of the region of the skull represented by the fragment in Fig. 2c bears tuberosities in V.
robustus not apparent on this specimen.
3. Would it be possible to characterize the neurocentral sutures? They look closed in Fig. 2, but
would rather have this assessed by the authors who have seen the specimens first-hand.
4. Figure 3b seems to indicate a partial squamosal as well as the frontal-postorbital fragment
discussed in the text. Was such an object actually recovered? If so, can it be figured?
Additional minor comments:
p. 3, line 44/45 – Diplocynodon is not known from North America, so it is unlikely to have left
8
bite marks on anything there. (Diplocynodon has been reported in North American deposits, but
all such occurrences are referable to other taxa, usually Borealosuchus.)
p. 4, lines 10/11 and 17/18 – Allodaposuchus is not a member of Crocodylia; “crocodyliform”
would be better here.
p. 4, line 15/16 – “eosuchian” should be “eusuchian”
p. 4, line 30/31 – semicolon should be a comma
p. 6, line 42/43 – “as well as” should be “and”
p. 6, line 54/55 – “e.g.” would be more appropriate than “i.e.” in this context.
p. 8, line 23/24 – “encountered” is not needed in this sentence
p. 9, line 35/36 – “squamosal’s” should be “squamosals” or “squamosal”
p. 10, second line – sentence should end with a period rather than a question mark.
p. 11, bottom – “crocodilian” should be “crocodylian”
p. 12, line 42/43 – “to today’s” should be “from that of today”
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Please see the attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171800)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171800.R1)
06-Dec-2017
Dear Dr Scheyer,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Trophic interactions between larger
crocodylians and giant tortoises on Aldabra Atoll, Western Indian Ocean, during the Late
Pleistocene" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
9
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
“Trophic interactions between larger crocodylians and giant tortoises on Aldabra
Atoll, Western Indian Ocean, during the Late Pleistocene” by Scheyer and colleagues
explores feeding traces made by crocodylians on giant tortoises, a trophic dynamic
that would have been present in the recent past on Aldabra Atoll, but is no longer
occurring. This manuscript is well-researched and well-presented. I have a few
concerns about the terminology used in this study (outlined below), but the actual
conclusions presented are well-supported.
Suggested revisions:
Page 2, line 15 (and others): There are a few examples of words being used to
describe bite marks that, while relevant if using casual definitions, have very specific
meanings within the context of bite mark research. Binford’s 1981 classification
scheme, which is widely used in anthropology and is growing in usage in
paleontology, has very specific definitions for the terms pit, puncture, score, and
furrow. Pits and punctures form when a single tooth contacts the surface of the
bone, but does not mover laterally. Pits indent the bone surface while punctures
pierce it completely. Scores and furrows do represent lateral movement of the
marking tooth, with, similarly, scores indenting the bone surface and furrows
piercing it completely. In this paper, Binford’s classification scheme is not
referenced, so when these terms are used, it is unclear if those definitions are being
used, or if the more standard definitions (as casual descriptive terms) are in play.
The authors should strongly consider clarifying their word usage, by citing Binford’s
classifications and explaining whether they are using it.
BINFORD, L.R., 1981, Bones: Ancient Men and Modern Myths: Academic Press, New
York, 320 p.
Page 4, line 59 (and others): Another couple of words that need to be revisited for
clarity: gnawing and chewing. These words are used in the bite mark literature (and
functional morphology, etc.) to specifically describe grinding food processing which
relies on tooth occlusion. Thank mammal-style mechanical food processing. I
understand wanting to mix up the wording to avoid repetition, but crocs (with a few
very rare exceptions which probably exhibited herbivory) do not “chew” or “gnaw”
the same way mammals do. These two words need to be replaced with more general
terms, like biting.
Page 12, line 26: This description sounds like some of the behaviors described in the
Milan et al., 2010 paper cited by the authors, specifically the animals who didn’t
figure out “nutcracking” behavior while eating turtles and instead focused on
exposed limbs, etc. It would be worth mentioning and discussing this here.
Page 12, line 42: Are there serial marks (series marks formed when multiple teeth
contact the bone surface during a single biting event) which could be used to further
constrain the size and identity of the trace maker? If so, this would be valuable
information to add.
Page 12, line 50: May suggest scavenging? A little speculative, so the authors may or
may not want to go into it in this section.
Page 13, line 1: Is this in comparison to a single set of serial bite marks (multiple
tooth marks associated with a single biting event) or do the authors have multiple
sets of serial bite marks? If the latter, than this can also be used to address the
size/identity of the trace maker. See my comment from the previous page.
Page 13, line 18: Maybe state the authors' names for readability of the sentence?
Page 18, line 14: The first of the two cited Drumheller and Brochu papers
(“Phylogenetic taphonomy…”) is from 2016, not 2014.
Page 23, whole table: Does this journal allow supplemental material? This is a
monster of a table to actually insert into the text, but I do think that the data should
be shared.
Page 8, line 51: The authors mention that they do have vertebrae in the section
where they are discussing their crocodylian’s potential age. It would be very easy to
add a line about fusion of neurocentral sutures in those vertebrae and cite Brochu,
1996 to further support the interpretation that these animals were from sexually
mature individuals.
Brochu, C. A., 1996. Closure of neurocentral sutures during crocodilian ontogeny:
implications for maturity assessment in fossil archosaurs. Journal of Vertebrate
Paleontology, 16(1), 49-62.
Page 4, line 15 (and others): Crocodyliform bite marks on turtle shell not cited in
this paper, but worth mentioning:
ERICKSON, B.R., 1984, Chelonivorous habits of the Paleocene crocodile Leidysuchus
formidabilis: Scientific Publications of the Science Museum of Minnesota, New
Series, v. 5, p. 1–9.
EVGEN, Z., MYKOLA, U., AND ANDRIY, B., 2012, The locality of Eocene vertebrates
Ikovo (Luhansk Region, Ukraine), Ecologo-taphonomic analysis: Paleontological
Review, v. 44, p. 107–122.
FUENTES, E.J., 2003, Predacion crocodiliana a quelonios, un Neochelys
(Pelomedusidae), del Eoceno de Zemora, lisiando por un Asiatosuchus: Studia
Geologica Salmanticensia, v. 39, p. 11–23.
KARL, H.-V. AND TICHY, G., 2004, The structure of fossil teeth of chelonophagous
crocodiles (Diapsida: Crocodylia): Studia Geologica Salmanticensia, v. 40, p. 115–
124.
MEAD, J., CUBERO, R., ZAMORA, A., SWIFT, S., LAURITO, C., AND GOMEZ, L., 2006,
Plio-Pleistocene Crocodylus (Crocodilia) from southwestern Costa Rica: Studies on
Neotropical Fauna and Environment, v. 41, p. 1–7.
MORGAN, G.S. AND ALBURY, N.A., 2013, The Cuban crocodile (Crocodylus rhombifer)
from the late Quaternary fossil deposits in the Bahamas and Cayman Islands: Florida
Museum of Natural History Bulletin 52, p. 161–236.
STEADMAN, D.W., FRANZ, R., MORGAN, G.S., ALBURY, N.A., KAKUK, B., BROAD, K.,
FRANZ, S.E., TINKER, K., PATEMAN, M.P., LOTT, T.A., JARZEN, D.M., AND DILCHER,
D.L., 2007, Exceptionally well preserved late Quaternary plant and vertebrate fossils
from a blue hole on Abaco, The Bahamas: Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, v. 104, p. 19897–19902.
The final paragraph of page 5 is structured a little oddly. Consider lumping like
predators with like?
Page 6, line 12: There is an open parenthesis missing here.
Page 11, line 47: There is a close parenthesis missing here.
Appendix B
Dear Ms. Power,
Thank you very much for your email and the reviews to our manuscript. We are happy that the
reviewers liked our contribution. We have now addressed all points and suggestions raised. Please see
below for our detailed answer to the reviewers’ comments.
We hope that you find the changes to the text and our answers to your satisfaction.
Please let us know if there are any questions remaining.
On behalf of all authors we would like to thank you for your editorial efforts.
With kind regards,
Torsten Scheyer and Dennis Hansen (corresponding authors)
REPLY TO REVIEWER 1:
“p. 2, line 35 and elsewhere: "late Pleistocene" should be thus: the subdivisions of thepochs are usually
not capitalized.”
WE PREFER TO KEEP THE TEXT AS IS. WE FOLLOW HERE THE LATEST VERSION OF “THE GEOLOGICAL
TIME SCALE 2012, VOLUME 2” (EDS. GRADSTEIN ET AL.), CHAPTER 30 “THE QUARTERNARY PERIOD”
BY PILLANS AND GIBBARD (FIGURE CAPION 30.4: “It is based on the internationally recognised formal
chronostratigraphical/geochronological subdivisions of the Quaternary System/Period; the Pleistocene
and Holocene Series/Epochs, and finally the Early/Lower, Middle, Late/Upper Pleistocene
Subseries/Subepochs.“). SEE ALSO
HTTP://WWW.STRATIGRAPHY.ORG/ICSCHART/CHRONOSTRATCHART2017-02.PDF
“p. 3, line 42: all of the "mammalians" cited are mammals, so simply call them that.”
CHANGED
“p. 4, line 15: change "eosuchian" to "eusuchian."”
CHANGED
“p. 5, line 10: delete "as in globidentans."”
DELETED
“p. 5, lines 28-37: this is a run-on sentence. Also the usual appellation is "the Bahamas."”
TEXT WAS CHANGED ACCORDINGLY
“p. 6, line 37: place "only" before "postzygapophyses."”
DONE
“p. 7, line 8: "Airscribe" is a brand name. If it was another brand, refer to it as an "air abrasion toot"”
WE DID NOT USE THE TERM “AIRSCRIBE” BUT “AIR SCRIBE TOOLS” – FOR CLARIFICATION WE
EXCHANGED THE WORD “AIR” WITH “PNEUMATIC”
“p. 7, line 10: "Nikon" should be thus, not all caps.”
CHANGED
“p. 11, line 61: "crocodylian" should be thus.”
CHANGED
“p. 17, line 14: Drumheller and Brochu in Palaios v. 31 is from 2016, not 2014. I happen to know this
paper well, so I caught this. I have not gone through the other citations but I suggest double-checking
all of them.”
CHANGED. THANK YOU FOR SPOTTING THIS. WE RE-CHECKED ALL OTHER REFERENCES CAREFULLY,
TOO.
REPLY TO REVIEWER 2:
“1. As far as I know, epochs don’t have formal epochs; thus, the “late” in “late Pleistocene” should not
be capitalized.”
SEE REPLY TO FIRST COMMENT OF REVIEWER1 ABOVE
“2. I’m not sure we can refer this material more precisely than Crocodylia. An alligatorid is very unlikely,
but referrals should be based on the specimens and not reliant on biogeographic arguments.”
WE CHANGED THE IDENTIFICATION TO CROCODYLOIDEA INDET., BASED ON THE PRESENCE OF A
DIASTEMA FOLLOWING THE 8TH DENTARY ALVEOLUS.
“Although the material might be from an osteolaemine, we can rule out V. robustus. The dorsal surface
of the region of the skull represented by the fragment in Fig. 2c bears tuberosities in V. robustus not
apparent on this specimen.”
A COMMENT WAS ADDED TO P.6 AND P.7 ACCORDINGLY
“3. Would it be possible to characterize the neurocentral sutures? They look closed in Fig. 2, but would
rather have this assessed by the authors who have seen the specimens first-hand.”
THEY ARE INDEED CLOSED. A SENTENCE WAS ADDED ACCORDINGLY TO THE FIRST PART OF THE
RESULTS SECTION.
“4. Figure 3b seems to indicate a partial squamosal as well as the frontal-postorbital fragment discussed
in the text. Was such an object actually recovered? If so, can it be figured?”
THE FRONTO-POSTORBITAL FRAGMENT (SHOWN IN FIG. 3B AND IN FIG. 2C) IS FROM THE HOLOTYPE
AND THE OUTLINE IS SHOWN HERE ONLY FOR COMPARISON. WE HAVE NOW ADDED REFERENCE TO
THE ORIGINAL DESCRIPTION OF THE HOLOTYPE OF ALDABRACHAMPSUS BY BROCHU 2006 IN THE
FIGURE CAPTION FOR CLARIFICATION.
“p. 3, line 44/45 – Diplocynodon is not known from North America, so it is unlikely to have left bite
marks on anything there. (Diplocynodon has been reported in North American deposits, but all such
occurrences are referable to other taxa, usually Borealosuchus.)”
CHANGED
“p. 4, lines 10/11 and 17/18 – Allodaposuchus is not a member of Crocodylia; “crocodyliform” would be
better here.”
CHANGED
“p. 4, line 15/16 – “eosuchian” should be “eusuchian””
CHANGED
“p. 4, line 30/31 – semicolon should be a comma”
CHANGED
“p. 6, line 42/43 – “as well as” should be “and””
CHANGED
“p. 6, line 54/55 – “e.g.” would be more appropriate than “i.e.” in this context.”
CHANGED
“p. 8, line 23/24 – “encountered” is not needed in this sentence”
DELETED
“p. 9, line 35/36 – “squamosal’s” should be “squamosals” or “squamosal””
CHANGED
“p. 10, second line – sentence should end with a period rather than a question mark.”
CHANGED
“p. 11, bottom – “crocodilian” should be “crocodylian””
DONE
“p. 12, line 42/43 – “to today’s” should be “from that of today””
CHANGED
REPLY TO REVIEWER 3:
“Page 2, line 15 (and others): There are a few examples of words being used to describe bite marks
that, while relevant if using casual definitions, have very specific meanings within the context of bite
mark research. Binford’s 1981 classification scheme, which is widely used in anthropology and is
growing in usage in paleontology, has very specific definitions for the terms pit, puncture, score, and
furrow. Pits and punctures form when a single tooth contacts the surface of the bone, but does not
mover laterally. Pits indent the bone surface while punctures pierce it completely. Scores and furrows do
represent lateral movement of the marking tooth, with, similarly, scores indenting the bone surface and
furrows piercing it completely. In this paper, Binford’s classification scheme is not referenced, so when
these terms are used, it is unclear if those definitions are being used, or if the more standard definitions
(as casual descriptive terms) are in play. The authors should strongly consider clarifying their word
usage, by citing Binford’s classifications and explaining whether they are using it.
BINFORD, L.R., 1981, Bones: Ancient Men and Modern Myths: Academic Press, New York, 320 p.””
WE GLADLY ACKNOWLEDGE THE POINT AND HAVE ADDED INFORMATION FROM BINFORD’S
CLASSIFICATION SCHEME TO PAGE 4 OF THE MANSUCRIPT.
Page 4, line 59 (and others): Another couple of words that need to be revisited for clarity: gnawing and
chewing. These words are used in the bite mark literature (and functional morphology, etc.) to
specifically describe grinding food processing which relies on tooth occlusion. Thank mammal-style
mechanical food processing. I understand wanting to mix up the wording to avoid repetition, but crocs
(with a few very rare exceptions which probably exhibited herbivory) do not “chew” or “gnaw” the same
way mammals do. These two words need to be replaced with more general terms, like biting.
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE POINT AND HAVE DELETED THE TERM “GNAWING” FROM THE TEXT. THE TERM
“CHEWING” WAS NOT USED BY US IN THE TEXT.
Page 12, line 26: This description sounds like some of the behaviors described in the Milan et al., 2010
paper cited by the authors, specifically the animals who didn’t figure out “nutcracking” behavior while
eating turtles and instead focused on exposed limbs, etc. It would be worth mentioning and discussing
this here.
WE ASSUME THAT THIS COMMENT RELATES TO PAGE 11, LINE 26 – YES, WE AGREE WITH THE
REVIEWER THAT IT IS SIMILAR TO THE MILAN ET AL. PAPER, HOWEVER, WE ALSO THINK THAT WE ARE
DEALING WITH A SPECIAL CASE WITH THESE GIANT TORTOISES, SO COMPARISON TO OTHER STUDIES
SHOULD BE DONE WITH CAUTION. THE SHEER SIZE OF SOME OF THE TORTOISES LIKELY PREVENTED
CROCODYLIANS FROM CRACKING THEM OPEN; EVEN IF THESE WOULD OTHERWISE SHOW SOME
“NUTCRACKING” BEHAVIOUR. WE NEVERTHELESS ADDED A SENTENCE IN THIS REGARD TO THE END
OF SECTION 4.2.
“Page 12, line 42: Are there serial marks (series marks formed when multiple teeth contact the bone
surface during a single biting event) which could be used to further constrain the size and identity of the
trace maker? If so, this would be valuable information to add.”
WE ASSUME THAT THIS COMMENT RELATES TO PAGE 11, LINE 42 – WE DISCUSS EQUIDISTANT
PUNCTURES AND PITS ON THE DORSAL SURFACE OF THE LARGER NUCHAL AS POTENTIALLY BEING
SERIAL MARKS OF ONE INDIVIDUAL, HOWEVER; WE DO NOT HAVE SKULL MATERIAL THAT WOULD
PROVIDE US MORE INFORMATION OF THE ALVEOLAR (AND THUS TEETH) DIMENSIONS. THEREFORE WE
LIKE TO REFRAIN FROM SPECULATING HERE.
“Page 12, line 50: May suggest scavenging? A little speculative, so the authors may or may not want to
go into it in this section.”
WE ASSUME THAT THIS COMMENT RELATES TO PAGE 11, LINE 50 – WE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO REFRAIN
FROM ADDING SPECULATIVE TEXT HERE
“Page 13, line 1: Is this in comparison to a single set of serial bite marks (multiple tooth marks
associated with a single biting event) or do the authors have multiple sets of serial bite marks? If the
latter, than this can also be used to address the size/identity of the trace maker. See my comment from
the previous page.”
AS NOTED IN THE COMMENT ABOVE, GIVEN THE LIMITED MATERIAL WE’D LIKE TO REFRAIN FROM
SPECULATING FURTHER HERE
Page 13, line 18: Maybe state the authors' names for readability of the sentence?
THE AUTHORS’ CONTRIBUTIONS ARE GIVEN IN THE STYLE OF THE JOURNAL, THUS WE REFRAIN FROM
MAKING ANY CHANGES.
“Page 18, line 14: The first of the two cited Drumheller and Brochu papers (“Phylogenetic taphonomy…”)
is from 2016, not 2014.”
THANKS FOR SPOTTING THIS. SEE RESPONSE TO COMMENT BY REVIEWER 2 ABOVE.
“Page 23, whole table: Does this journal allow supplemental material? This is a monster of a table to
actually insert into the text, but I do think that the data should be shared.”
WE HAVE NOW SPLIT THE PREVIOUS TABLE IN TWO, ONE TABLE FOR THE TORTOISE REMAINS AND
THE OTHER FOR THE CROCODYLIAN REMAINS. THEREFORE IT SHOULD BE EASIER TO FIT THOSE IN
THE PAPER.
“Page 8, line 51: The authors mention that they do have vertebrae in the section where they are
discussing their crocodylian’s potential age. It would be very easy to add a line about fusion of
neurocentral sutures in those vertebrae and cite Brochu, 1996 to further support the interpretation that
these animals were from sexually mature individuals.
Brochu, C. A., 1996. Closure of neurocentral sutures during crocodilian ontogeny: implications for
maturity assessment in fossil archosaurs. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology, 16(1), 49-62.”
YES, WE CAN ADD THIS INFORMATION. A SENTENCE WAS ADDED ACCORDINGLY TO THE FIRST PART
OF THE RESULTS SECTION. SEE ALSO COMMENT BY REVIEWER 2.
“Page 4, line 15 (and others): Crocodyliform bite marks on turtle shell not cited in this paper, but worth
mentioning […]”
WE THANK THE REVIEWER FOR POINTING OUT ALL THESE ADDITIONAL REFERENCES. WE LIKE TO
REFRAIN FROM GIVING AN EXHAUSTIVE OVERVIEW, WHICH HAS BEEN DONE ALREADY ADMIRABLY BY
DRUMHELLER AND BROCHU 2016, IN OUR MANUSCRIPT. WE DO, HOWEVER, NOW INCLUDE A FEW
MORE REFERENCES WHICH SPECIFICALLY POINTED OUT A CHELONIVOROUS DIET IN CROCODYLIANS
(THE REFERENCES WERE ADDED ON P.5).
The final paragraph of page 5 is structured a little oddly. Consider lumping like predators with like?
WE HAVE TRIED TO ADDRESS THIS POINT AND THE PREVIOUS SUGGESTION BY REVIEWER 1, AND
HOPE THAT THE PARAGRAPH IS NOW EASIER TO UNDERSTAND. WE ALSO PREFER TO GROUP
RECORDED PREDATION EVENTS BY FOSSIL VS. MODERN RECORD RATHER THAN BY IDENTITY OF THE
PREDATORS.
Page 6, line 12: There is an open parenthesis missing here.
WE COULD NOT DETERMINE THE MENTIONED MISSING OPEN PARENTHESIS ON P.6
Page 11, line 47: There is a close parenthesis missing here.
PARENTHESIS ADDED
Society Open
