Geochemistry, faunal composition and trophic structure in
reducing sediments on the southwest South Georgia
margin
James B. Bell, Alfred Aquilina, Clare Woulds, Adrian G. Glover, Crispin T. S. Little, William
D. K. Reid, Laura E. Hepburn, Jason Newton and Rachel A. Mills
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160284.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160284
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 April 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 August 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 25 August 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160284.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (David Pond)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Adequate
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper provides a comprehensive albeit largely descriptive study of the faunal and
geochemical characteristics of reducing sediments of the south west South Georgia margin.
Determining the carbon isotope composition of source methane would have been a valuable
addition to the paper since as the authors acknowledge, geothermally produced methane can
have quite enriched isotope signatures comparable with signatures of POC. Line 500 in the paper
'Methane with similarly heavy isotope values is generally associated with unsedimented
hydrothermal vents. The Menez Gwen site in the Atlantic is characterised by heavy methane and
also quire highly sedimented, at least in locations where the vent mussels are abundant.
Another valuable addition to the paper would be have been to conclusively establish the presence
or otherwise of chemoautotrophic symbionts in tissue sections of invertebrates and reducing
sediments by well-established molecular and microscopic techniques.
These criticisms aside, the paper represents a substantial body of new information on polar biota
associated with reducing sediments and will be a substantial contribution to the literature of a
developing topic of research. I also appreciate the difficulties of undertaking research in the
Southern Ocean where sea conditions often limit what scientific objectives can be achieved.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Lisa Levin)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes supporting data are clear although column headings are needed on supplement 1
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This study contributes to the growing literature on the transition zones between chemosynthetic
and background communities, as well as on systems that appear to be hybrids. Reducing
sediments are widespread in the ocean – from estuaries to the deep sea. This paper makes a
valuable contribution to the inventory and description of such systems, and should be of broad
interest to readers working on sediment benthos.
The paper is written clearly, with methods well described.
Some specifics should be included:
Methods: what are the dimensions of the megacorer tubes? What was the total area sampled?
Was temperature of sediments measured?
Isotopes:
Preservation in ethanol is known to change isotope signatures of animal tissues. There are a
variety of papers that discuss the magnitude of the effect – these should be cited and discussed.
Can you give the precision of the instruments for each isotope measured?
Was there any thought given to running compound-specific isotopes to better constrain the base
of the food web?
Results:
Fauna: Figures and tables with species lists and their densities belong in the main paper. (e.g.,
Table S1)
Was there discolored sediment seen in cores or visual surveys?
Oxygen: I did not see the oxygen results presented in the text. Could the aeration activities of the
large number of tube builders and burrowers (cirratulids, oligochaetes, bivalves) promote aerobic
methane oxidation subsurface? Are the Aphelochaeta mudball builders?
Discussion:
Lines 399-406. Be more explicit about what differences there were in this comparison, specific
depths and sampling equipment.
Trophic section:
Can you discuss the signature of methane in the area? The signature of surface water POC? – if it
is not known what is it likely to be?
Line 425 Give water depth of the CA seep
You do not mention the possibility of aerobic methane oxidation. Is this likely? Or does
methane seep too slowly for this?
Line 435 I think you mean Order Phyllodocida? Normally phylodocids refer to the family
Phyllodocidae – but you clearly are talking about other families here.
Line 438-9 Sphaerosyllis and Exogoninae are common on carbonates at Costa Rica (e.g., Levin et
al. 2015 DSR I) and Hydrate Ridge seeps (Levin et al. 2016 DSR II) and in Chile Margin
hydrothermal sediments (Thurber, Levin unpublished)
4
Line 449 omit “not consistent with morphology” Deposit feeders usually have high d15N
because they are eating sediments whose N has been heavily recycled on the way down from the
surface.
Line 457 Explain - why is microbial AOM associated with low d34S? use of sulfide generated
by sulfate reducers?
Line 475 how much lower d13C?
Line 499 produced from A combination of…
Line 500-2 Doesn’t the signature of the C go up when it is oxidized?
Line 526 – What methane has a signature of -100? Isn’t this the fractionated signature of archaeal
lipids?
Lline 538 omit and before not on other…
Line 552 missing word after although?
Line 564 off seep and near-seep?
Line 567 role of microbial sub seafloor methane consumption
Fig. 3, 4, captions +/- 1? SD
Table 1 clarify if there is one core taken per substation or how many?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160284)
19-Aug-2016
Dear Mr Bell
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160284 entitled
"Geochemistry, faunal composition and trophic structure in reducing sediments on the southwest
South Georgia margin" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
5
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160284
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Aug-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
6
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both referees support publication of this well generally written manuscript. The first referee is
happy with the MS as it stands, whilst the second referee raises some helpful specific points that
need to addressed.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper provides a comprehensive albeit largely descriptive study of the faunal and
geochemical characteristics of reducing sediments of the south west South Georgia margin.
Determining the carbon isotope composition of source methane would have been a valuable
addition to the paper since as the authors acknowledge, geothermally produced methane can
have quite enriched isotope signatures comparable with signatures of POC. Line 500 in the paper
'Methane with similarly heavy isotope values is generally associated with unsedimented
hydrothermal vents. The Menez Gwen site in the Atlantic is characterised by heavy methane and
also quire highly sedimented, at least in locations where the vent mussels are abundant.
7
Another valuable addition to the paper would be have been to conclusively establish the presence
or otherwise of chemoautotrophic symbionts in tissue sections of invertebrates and reducing
sediments by well-established molecular and microscopic techniques.
These criticisms aside, the paper represents a substantial body of new information on polar biota
associated with reducing sediments and will be a substantial contribution to the literature of a
developing topic of research. I also appreciate the difficulties of undertaking research in the
Southern Ocean where sea conditions often limit what scientific objectives can be achieved.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study contributes to the growing literature on the transition zones between chemosynthetic
and background communities, as well as on systems that appear to be hybrids. Reducing
sediments are widespread in the ocean – from estuaries to the deep sea. This paper makes a
valuable contribution to the inventory and description of such systems, and should be of broad
interest to readers working on sediment benthos.
The paper is written clearly, with methods well described.
Some specifics should be included:
Methods: what are the dimensions of the megacorer tubes? What was the total area sampled?
Was temperature of sediments measured?
Isotopes:
Preservation in ethanol is known to change isotope signatures of animal tissues. There are a
variety of papers that discuss the magnitude of the effect – these should be cited and discussed.
Can you give the precision of the instruments for each isotope measured?
Was there any thought given to running compound-specific isotopes to better constrain the base
of the food web?
Results:
Fauna: Figures and tables with species lists and their densities belong in the main paper. (e.g.,
Table S1)
Was there discolored sediment seen in cores or visual surveys?
Oxygen: I did not see the oxygen results presented in the text. Could the aeration activities of the
large number of tube builders and burrowers (cirratulids, oligochaetes, bivalves) promote aerobic
methane oxidation subsurface? Are the Aphelochaeta mudball builders?
Discussion:
Lines 399-406. Be more explicit about what differences there were in this comparison, specific
depths and sampling equipment.
Trophic section:
Can you discuss the signature of methane in the area? The signature of surface water POC? – if it
is not known what is it likely to be?
Line 425 Give water depth of the CA seep
8
You do not mention the possibility of aerobic methane oxidation. Is this likely? Or does
methane seep too slowly for this?
Line 435 I think you mean Order Phyllodocida? Normally phylodocids refer to the family
Phyllodocidae – but you clearly are talking about other families here.
Line 438-9 Sphaerosyllis and Exogoninae are common on carbonates at Costa Rica (e.g., Levin et
al. 2015 DSR I) and Hydrate Ridge seeps (Levin et al. 2016 DSR II) and in Chile Margin
hydrothermal sediments (Thurber, Levin unpublished)
Line 449 omit “not consistent with morphology” Deposit feeders usually have high d15N
because they are eating sediments whose N has been heavily recycled on the way down from the
surface.
Line 457 Explain - why is microbial AOM associated with low d34S? use of sulfide generated
by sulfate reducers?
Line 475 how much lower d13C?
Line 499 produced from A combination of…
Line 500-2 Doesn’t the signature of the C go up when it is oxidized?
Line 526 – What methane has a signature of -100? Isn’t this the fractionated signature of archaeal
lipids?
Lline 538 omit and before not on other…
Line 552 missing word after although?
Line 564 off seep and near-seep?
Line 567 role of microbial sub seafloor methane consumption
Fig. 3, 4, captions +/- 1? SD
Table 1 clarify if there is one core taken per substation or how many?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160284)
See Appendix A.
James Bell (corresponding author)
School of Geography,
University of Leeds
Leeds, West Yorks
LS2 9JT
gyjbb@leeds.ac.uk; (+44) 113 343300
eviewer response letter in support of Royal Society Open Science Submission RSOS-160284:
ll JB, Aquilina A, Woulds C, Glover AG, Little CTS, Reid WDK, Hepburn LE, Newton J and Mills
RA ‘Geochemistry, faunal composition and trophic structure in reducing sediments on the
southwest South Georgia margin’
ar Royal Society Open Science Editors,
The following details the changes we have made to the manuscript in response to the
iewer comments. We have addressed each comment (reviewer comment in bold)
ividually and refer directly to changes we have made as excerpts from the text. Thank you
agreeing to accept this article (subject to the corrections outlined below).
cerely,
mes Bell (on behalf of the authors)
sociate Editor Comments to Author:
sociate Editor: 1
mments to the Author:
th referees support publication of this well generally written manuscript. The first referee is
ppy with the MS as it stands, whilst the second referee raises some helpful specific points
t need to be addressed.
viewer comments to Author:
viewer: 1
e paper provides a comprehensive albeit largely descriptive study of the faunal and
ochemical characteristics of reducing sediments of the southwest South Georgia
rgin.
termining the carbon isotope composition of source methane would have been
aluable addition to the paper since as the authors acknowledge, geothermally
oduced methane can have quite enriched isotope signatures comparable with
natures of POC. Line 500 in the paper 'Methane with similarly heavy isotope values is
nerally associated with unsedimented hydrothermal vents. The Menez Gwen site in
e Atlantic is characterised by heavy methane and also quire highly sedimented, at
st in locations where the vent mussels are abundant.
e carbon isotopic signature of the sediment methane would certainly have been a valuable
urce of information for this paper. Unfortunately, suitable samples were not available at the
e that data were being collected and the measurements had not been made at an earlier
te so we were unable to determine the isotopic values of sediment methane from these sites.
ere was some consideration as to whether samples could be collected retrospectively but it
nnot be guaranteed that subsequent measurements would have been representative of the
mpling time of the rest of the samples. We have amended line 500 to clarify, following the
iewer’s suggestion. The sentence now reads “Methane with similarly heavy isotopic values
more commonly associated with a hydrothermal origin (89)…”.
other valuable addition to the paper would be have been to conclusively establish the
esence or otherwise of chemoautotrophic symbionts in tissue sections of
vertebrates and reducing sediments by well-established molecular and microscopic
hniques.
e reviewer is correct to point out that these data would strengthen the conclusions of the
per. During the data collection, we undertook microscopic techniques for the dominant
alve and oligochaete species and consulted with taxonomists with the aim of detecting
mbiotic relationships with microbial symbionts. These efforts did not identify any species
th obvious populations of endosymbiotic fauna. We also, in collaboration with Christer
séus at the University of Gothenburg, attempted to sequence some of the oligochaete
ecimens. Sequencing efforts failed, likely because of treatment effects and the storage time of
samples.
ese criticisms aside, the paper represents a substantial body of new information on
lar biota associated with reducing sediments and will be a substantial contribution to
e literature of a developing topic of research. I also appreciate the difficulties of
dertaking research in the Southern Ocean where sea conditions often limit what
entific objectives can be achieved.
thank the reviewer for their comments and acknowledge the limitations that they have
ntified. As detailed above, these were unfortunately unavoidable and the present
bmission represents the best available data that could be included in the manuscript.
viewer: 2
is study contributes to the growing literature on the transition zones between
emosynthetic and background communities, as well as on systems that appear to be
brids. Reducing sediments are widespread in the ocean from estuaries to the deep
a. This paper makes a valuable contribution to the inventory and description of such
stems, and should be of broad interest to readers working on sediment benthos. The
per is written clearly, with methods well described.
me specifics should be included:
thods: what are the dimensions of the megacorer tubes? What was the total area
mpled?
have amended line 124 to clarify. It now reads “Fauna were all sampled during JC55 using a
wers-Connelly dampened megacorer fitted with eight 10cm diameter tubes (44). Between 1
d 6 deployments were taken from each site (Table 1) giving a total area quantitatively
mpled of ~1490 cm2.”
as temperature of sediments measured?
ttom water temperatures were 1.2°C and there is no reason to think that sediment pore
ters would have been significantly different. We have added temperature data on line 241.
topes:
eservation in ethanol is known to change isotope signatures of animal tissues. There
e a variety of papers that discuss the magnitude of the effect - these should be cited
d discussed.
have expanded the last paragraph of the discussion before the PLFA section (beginning
ne 476) to include more detailed discussion as the reviewer suggests.
n you give the precision of the instruments for each isotope measured?
ecision for sediment PLFAs added on line 217 and bulk isotopic data on line 183. Bulk
topic precision data from the internal reference material used in this study.
as there any thought given to running compound-specific isotopes to better constrain
e base of the food web?
e reviewer correctly identifies a further source of data that would have been useful to this
per. However, nitrogen compound-specific techniques require considerable mass of faunal
mples that were unfortunately not available during data collection.
sults:
una: Figures and tables with species lists and their densities belong in the main
per. (e.g., Table S1)
have added the species list and density data from supplementary file 1 as a table (table 3)
t have kept the information in the supplementary file, to make it easier to download for
erested users.
as there discolored sediment seen in cores or visual surveys?
epresentative example of the visual survey data is presented in figure 2. No discolouration
sediment was noted in the cores at the time of collection.
ygen: I did not see the oxygen results presented in the text. Could the aeration
ivities of the large number of tube builders and burrowers (cirratulids, oligochaetes,
alves) promote aerobic methane oxidation subsurface? Are the Aphelochaeta
udball builders?
ygen data is presented in supplementary figure three and are presented in Figure 5 (bottom-
ht panel) and discussed on lines 354 – 356 in the results. Oxygen penetration depth (~
mbsf) was not sufficient to allow for much aerobic methanotrophy, given the distribution of
vated methane concentrations (>10 cmbsf). We have added a sentence to line 539 to clarify
s: “Oxygen penetration depth (Fig. 5) was less than 2cmbsf, suggesting that aerobic
dation of methane was probably very limited.” We did not observe areas of extensive mud
ls during towed video transects of the area.
scussion:
es 399-406. Be more explicit about what differences there were in this comparison,
ecific depths and sampling equipment.
have clarified differences in depth and sampling equipment. The section now reads
mples from comparable depths (300 – 500 m) around the South Sandwich Islands (80)
re different to the South Georgia assemblages, being instead dominated by molluscs and
lacostracans, with annelids comprising a relatively small component of the assemblages.
ese samples, whilst not directly comparable owing to differences in sampling techniques
llected by epibenthic sled, as opposed to megacoring), provide evidence of differences
tween South Georgia and other shelf areas of the East Scotia back-arc basin at several
onomic levels and support the suggestion that these sediments represent a continuum
tween seep and background sediments.“
ophic section:
n you discuss the signature of methane in the area? The signature of surface water
C, or if it is not known, what is it likely to be?
mentioned in the response to the comments of reviewer 1, we were unfortunately unable to
quire data for methane carbon isotopic signatures (though we do certainly acknowledge that
would have been very valuable). We have also added an estimate for the d13C signature of
face primary productivity on line 429, which reads “Estimates of the d13C signatures of
face POC at this latitude approximately range between -29 and -24 ‰ (81).”
e 425: Give water depth of the CA seep
pth of California margin seep (520m) added to text
u do not mention the possibility of aerobic methane oxidation. Is this likely? Or does
thane seep too slowly for this?
mentioned above, oxygen penetration depth was insufficient to allow for aerobic methane
dation. We cannot comment on the rate of methane seepage, as suitable measurements
re not available.
e 435: I think you mean Order Phyllodocida? Normally phylodocids refer to the
mily Phyllodocidae - but you clearly are talking about other families here.
e reviewer is correct and we have amended the sentence to redress this confusion. It now
ds “Polychaetes of the order Phyllodocida (e.g. alciopids, hesionids, nephtyids and
lynoids) were among the taxa with the highest d15N values”
e 438-9: Sphaerosyllis and Exogoninae are common on carbonates at Costa Rica (e.g.,
vin et al. 2015 DSR I) and Hydrate Ridge seeps (Levin et al. 2016 DSR II) and in Chile
rgin hydrothermal sediments (Thurber, Levin unpublished)
have added the sentence and references at the reviewers’ suggestion.
e 449: omit ‘not consistent with morphology’. Deposit feeders usually have high d15N
cause they are eating sediments whose N has been heavily recycled on the way down
m the surface.
have amended the line, which now reads “…strategies that favour OM that had been
ycled by microbial activity, resulting in a relatively high trophic level.”
e 457: Explain - why is microbial AOM associated with low d34S? Use of sulfide
nerated by sulfate reducers?
have amended the sentence at the reviewer’s suggestion, to clarify the decrease in d34S. The
ntence now reads “Low d34S values are associated with microbial AOM (24, 31) as sulphate
uction, which results in low d34S signatures, co-occurs with methane oxidation.”
e 475: How much lower d13C?
ntence corrected to give more detail. The sentence now reads “. Untreated sediment samples
d d13C values that were 0.66 ‰ greater than acidified sediment samples (82).“
e 499: Produced from A combination of
rrection made as suggested by reviewer.
e 500-2: Doesn’t the signature of the C go up when it is oxidized?
have amended the sentence to clarify. The sentence now reads “hence it is unlikely that
thane was the sole source of carbon in MUFAs without a very substantial metabolic
ctionation effect.”
e 526: What methane has a signature of -100‰? Isn’t this the fractionated signature
archaeal lipids?
have included an additional reference (Whiticar, 1999. Chemical Geology) which discusses
topic characteristics of sedimentary methane in some detail. Methane carbon isotopic values
the range we present include methane oxidation and carbonate reduction (see. Whiticar, Fig.
The range likely exceeds the realistic limits of methane carbon isotopic signatures but in
s context, serves to emphasise how small an impact methanotrophy could possibly have had
the d13C of sediment organic carbon. We have however amended the range given to reflect
reviewers’ suggestion. The sentence now reads “We estimate that, if entirely converted into
C, this amount of methane would only have changed the d13Corg by between 10-2 and 10-14
in each core section, depending upon the isotopic signature of the methane which was
known, but estimated between approximately -80 and -50 ‰ (96).”
e 538: Omit and before not on other
endment made as suggested by reviewer.
e 552: Missing word after although?
endment made at reviewer suggestion. The sentence now reads: “These deposits were
ributed to a <U+03B3>-proteobacterial community, utilising iron and were not linked to
thanotrophy or AOM, but were similar to hydrothermal vent communities (111-113).”
e 564: Off seep and near-seep?
endment made as suggested by reviewer.
e 567: Role of microbial sub seafloor methane consumption
endment made as suggested by reviewer.
. 3, 4, captions +/- 1? SD
ure captions amended according to reviewer suggestion.
ble 1: Clarify if there is one core taken per substation or how many?
ble caption amended according to reviewer suggestion.
is concludes our response to the reviewer comments. We thank both reviewers for their
pful responses and the editors for the timely handling of our manuscript and look forward
seeing it published.
Society Open
