Reintroducing apex predators: the perils of muddling guilds
and taxocenoses
Everton B. P. Miranda
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180567.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180567
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180567.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper does a great job of presenting some of the errors in Wolf and Ripple. Although Wolf
and Ripple still present a valid argument, it is important that errors are recognised, so they do not
get embedded within the literature.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Miranda and Peres critique the large carnivore rewilding study Wolf and Ripple (2018). Their
primary points appear to be that Wolf and Ripple have used ecological terminology incorrectly,
have selected an inappropriate group of species to study, and have made errors in their lists of
reserves. However, these criticisms are both minor and inaccurate. Wolf and Ripple (2018) use
technical language in a clear and consistent fashion. The terrestrial large carnivores (members of
the order Carnivora) are commonly analyzed as a group and form an ecologically important set
of species with the potential to benefit from reintroductions. Given the global-scale nature of the
analysis in Wolf and Ripple (2018), it seems reasonable that not all of the listed reserves will be
suitable for reintroduction.
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Meredith Root-Bernstein)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I think this paper is great. I believe I was a reviewer for the Wolf and Ripple paper, and I had the
same kind of complaint, but they brushed me off. I fully support all the points made by the
paper. The authors might wish to emphasise (but it is not essential to do so) that ecologists,
especially those who get their data from databases, have a tendency to ignore omnivory and split
everything into carnivores or herbivores. This is obviously silly. Attention to "marginal" (from the
macroecology perspective) things like omnivory, non-mammals, semi-aquatic species, data on
species presence not in global databases, etc., is really essential if we claim to actually be studying
ecology and not just reductive representations of ecology.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180567.R0)
21-May-2018
Dear Mr Miranda
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180567 entitled
"Apex predators: the perils of muddling guilds and taxocenoses" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
4
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180567
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
5
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 30-May-2018). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
6
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Editor comments:
Two reviewers agree strongly with the criticisms put forward in this comment and offer no
suggestions for revision. The third reviewer disagrees. Please be advised that the original authors
will be invited to respond to your comment, so you may wish to reconsider how you frame some
points. In particular, please remove the joke about the ecologist and the sheep. It has been told
many times, but in this instance it is personally directed (as opposed simply to characterizing a
whole field), because you are responding to a specific study and its authors. Please also have the
manuscript edited by a native speaker of English; overall the writing is very good but there are
some minor problems ("predatorial" is not a word; please say "predatory"). Thanks for
submitting.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper does a great job of presenting some of the errors in Wolf and Ripple. Although Wolf
and Ripple still present a valid argument, it is important that errors are recognised, so they do not
get embedded within the literature.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Miranda and Peres critique the large carnivore rewilding study Wolf and Ripple (2018). Their
primary points appear to be that Wolf and Ripple have used ecological terminology incorrectly,
have selected an inappropriate group of species to study, and have made errors in their lists of
reserves. However, these criticisms are both minor and inaccurate. Wolf and Ripple (2018) use
technical language in a clear and consistent fashion. The terrestrial large carnivores (members of
the order Carnivora) are commonly analyzed as a group and form an ecologically important set
of species with the potential to benefit from reintroductions. Given the global-scale nature of the
analysis in Wolf and Ripple (2018), it seems reasonable that not all of the listed reserves will be
suitable for reintroduction.
7
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
I think this paper is great. I believe I was a reviewer for the Wolf and Ripple paper, and I had the
same kind of complaint, but they brushed me off. I fully support all the points made by the
paper. The authors might wish to emphasise (but it is not essential to do so) that ecologists,
especially those who get their data from databases, have a tendency to ignore omnivory and split
everything into carnivores or herbivores. This is obviously silly. Attention to "marginal" (from the
macroecology perspective) things like omnivory, non-mammals, semi-aquatic species, data on
species presence not in global databases, etc., is really essential if we claim to actually be studying
ecology and not just reductive representations of ecology.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180567.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180567.R1)
07-Jun-2018
Dear Mr Miranda,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Reintroducing Apex Predators: the
perils of muddling guilds and taxocenoses" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
8
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Reintroducing Apex Ppredators: the perils of Formatted: Left
muddling guilds and taxocenoses
Everton B. P. Miranda*1, 2
1- ONF Brasil Gestão Florestal, Cotriguaçu, MT, Brazil.
2 - Universidade do Estado de Mato Grosso, Alta Floresta, MT, Brazil.
*Corresponding author: mirandaebp@gmail.com
A popular joke about ecologists describes a sheep farmer approached by a guy wearing glasses
and carrying a fancy laptop – "I’ll tell you how many sheep you have on your pasture, and if I
guess it right, I’ll keep one”, said the guy. As the farmer stared perplexedly, he said “Ok, go
ahead”. So the guy opened his laptop, downloaded some satellite photos, ran some algorithms
on point counts and local primary productivity, and announced: "You have exactly 42 sheep."
Impressed, the farmer said, "You're right. Go ahead and take a sheep". So the guy loaded an
animal into his truck. "Now," said the farmer, "I'll bet all my sheep against your truck if I can
tell you what you do for a living." The guy adjusted his glasses and nodded quickly. "You're an
ecologist," said the farmer. "How did you guess?" said the ecologist. "Well, you obviously had
an ingenious method for counting animals, but what really clinched it for me was when you
picked up my sheep dog".
Wolf & Ripple [1] make the case for “large carnivore” conservation through reintroductions.
The selected species, however, were neither necessarily apex predators nor carnivores, but a
subset of the mammalian order Carnivora, including those ranging from insectivores-
omnivores (sloth bear Melursus ursinus [2,3], sun bear Helarctos malayanus [4]), to herbivores-
omnivores (Andean bear Tremarctos ornatus [3,5], American black bear Ursus americanus [6]),
and full omnivores (Asiatic black bear Ursus thibetanus [7,8], brown bear Ursus arctos [9,10])
and several hypercarnivores (jaguar Panthera onca [11], dhole Cuon alpinus [12], Cheetah
Acynonyx jubatus [13]). At first, Wolf & Ripple lump togetheramalgamate mammalian
carnivores (those in the order Carnivora, which may or may not be regular predators), apex
predators (which occupy the top of food chains [14]), and any carnivore (which primarily
consumes other vertebrates). Further, they confuse mixed guilds (a group of species that
exploit similar resources) with taxocenosis (a group of sympatric species sharing a common
phylogenetic clade). Consequently, the authors provide a biased assessment of reintroduction
priorities based on conservation imperatives that are not restricted to any of these groups, but
primarily associated with apex predators. This commentary explores the development of this
muddle, which I interpret to be mainly due to a combination of erroneousinaccurate use of
nomenclature and concepts. Furthermore, the authors make some mistakes isinterpret for a
number of and incorrectly infer on various proposed reintroduction sites that proper
investigation would have revealed to be inappropriate.
Mammalian carnivores are not alone as apex predators, as the latter which comprise a diverse
set of terrestrial and aquatic vertebrates on Earth [14], which include (but are not limited to)
large raptors and large, predatoryial reptiles. By equating apex predators withto Carnivora
mammals, the authors ignore the diverse predator species that have the same potential to: (i)
perform predator-related ecosystem functions [15,16]; (ii) create wildlife-viewing tourism
opportunities [15,17]; and (iii) reduce species extinction risk by re-establishing
extirpatedformer populations and reversing range shrinkage. Furthermore, this diverse array
of apex predators is are threatened by exactly the same extinction drivers as “large
carnivores”, namely : livestock predation [16,18], perceived risk to humanspeople [19,20],
overhunting [21,22], and habitat loss. In temperate and boreal regions, extant, large raptors
may now performexert reduced functions as top predators [23], while the role of large reptiles
may be nonexistent [24]. These latitudes containSuch regions concentrate most of the
developed countries, and therefore most of ongoing scientific research, which helps explain
the authors’ biased worldview of which species qualify as apex predators in ecosystems
outside the northern hemisphere. Apex predators outside the northern hemisphere are,
however, characterized by high diversity.
Reptiles such as crocodilians and giant snakes are important predators of the land-water
interface on tropical and subtropical realms. Crocodilians – the largest living continental
predators on Earth – can control land vertebrate access of terrestrial vertebrates to vital
resources such as water [25] and can inflict havoc and significant mortality on terrestrial
mammals, with concomitant effects that that cascade down into entire aquatic foodwebs [26].
Pythons and anacondas, on the other hand, prey on terrestrial vertebrates, thus exerting top-
down control over their populations [27,28], as do other apex predators [29], and some
mammalian Carnivora [30]. Given their lower metabolic ratessm, reptiles feedexibit much less
frequently feeding than do bouts compared with hypercarnivorous mammals [31], but this is
compensated for by the extremely high standing biomass of heterotherm carnivores [22,32].
Physical power is clearly not a problem, since pythons and anacondas are capable of killing and
eatingtaking down “large carnivores” such as bears and large cats as prey [33,34]. Like many
mammalian carnivores, large, predatory reptiles also kill domestic livestock, and are vulnerable
to the same sort of retaliatory persecution that affectsing “large carnivores” [35,36]. Giant
snakes regularly kill domestic dogs inn tropical urban, periurban and rural landscapes in the
tropics [19,37,38] – as do the dog-eating leopards Panthera pardus of India [39]. The well-
known preference that renowned pythons show for eating canids appetite for dogs must be
taken into accountconsideration when planning a possible reintroduction of ing red wolves
Canis rufus into the Everglades National Park else we risk losing them to Python molurus
predation. Predatory Rreptiles are indeed conspicuous elements of apex predator guilds
throughout many regions, but are frequently are overlooked as the top predator that they are.
in this role.
Raptors are the Earth’s largest aerial predators in tropical, subtropical and temperate
landscapes on Earth. As do large, predatoryial reptiles, giant raptors occasionally even
eventually snatch offspring of “large carnivores” [40,41]. Extant, large-bodied raptors like
harpy eagles Harpia harpyja, crowned eagles Stephanoaetus coronatus and Philippine eagles
Pithecophaga jefferyi perform the role of apex predators in the tropical forest canopy [42–44],
a habitat that is largely or completely inaccessible to large, terrestrial carnivores. Giant raptors
are therefore apex predators in the world’s most biodiverse terrestrial ecosystems [45,46]. In
tropical forests and other biomes, giant raptors exert the same top-down roles [47–49] of the
more widely- celebrated “large carnivores”. As for wolves, research has documented the
cascading effects onf diverse trophic levels when induced by missing apex aerial predators are
missing. Clearly the largest raptors play – with an important roles in maintaining balance in
the vertebrate communities of forest canopies for giant raptors [49–51]. Trophic cascade
ecology is a research topicendeavour that has conspicuously focused on the Carnivora
mammal taxocenosis. In contrast, giant raptors have been largely ignored by Wolf and& Ripple
in this and by othersimilar research efforts reviews onregarding apex predators.
While proposing species reintroductions, Wolf & Ripple provided a superficial less than ideal
examination of the occurrence, habitat suitability, and original distributions of “large
carnivores”. For the sake of brevity, I restrict my comments to their further examine here their
proposed reintroductions infor the Neotropics. For example, the first of the six sites suggested
for jaguar reintroduction, La Payunia, is a barren scrubland that provides utterly inadequate
habitat for jaguars, while the other five sites already harbor jaguar populations, thus obviating
the need for reintroduction there. Four of the last five sites, namely Campos Amazônicos [52],
Guaporé [53], Pacaás Novos [54], and Mapinguari [55], have published reports already
confirming the presence of jaguars, while the final site, Rio Novo, obviously must have jaguars.
as thatReintroductions at the other proposed sites would be redundant because they already
support jaguar populations (e.g. Campos Amazônicos [52], Guaporé [53], Pacaás Novos [54],
Mapinguari [55]). Strict evidence of jaguars is missing only for Rio Novo, where jaguars are
obviously present since this protected area is embedded within a vast region of continuous
Amazonian forest with a svery, where the low human footprint. carry little threat to jaguars.
Cordillera Azul National Park, where Wolf & Ripple propose the to reintroduction ofe pumas
Puma concolor, , already has a population of pumas population [56]. Similarly, I found
weaknesses in the rRecommended reintroduction sites for Andean bears. Running down that
list of six sites, one finds – which are cloud forest specialists – had a number of errors: (i) La
Tatacoa and Cerro Sarroche are arid, rocky landscapes that, while they might support some
bears as landscapes as El Chaparri, are far from good habitat for the species, so should not be
prioritized; (ii) Serrania de Minas has an Andean bear population recently discovered recently
uncovered by local, government-supported researchers, a local group supported by
government [57], and researchers found bears in s does Pampa Hermosa in Peru [58]; (iii)
Tinigua is at ~300 m a.s.l. and offers only lowland marginal lacking adequate habitat for
(Andean bears, which tend to do best in cloud forests at mostly feed on plants that grow at
2500-3000 m a.s.l, [59]); (iv) the occurrence of Andean bears in Panama is at best speculative
[60], withand the proposed site (Dárien) lackings sufficient elevation [61] and at best receiving
wandering bears into Panama from Los Katios in Colombia [62] (Bernard Peyton, pers.
comm.).
. Therefore, all the reintroductions recommended for the Neotropics the Neotropics are either
inappropriate or mistaken. Global-scale studies commonly show weakness when one examines
specific cases one by one, but then one wonders how valid conclusions can be drawn from
what appear to be such universally-incorrect locations in the Neotropics.
When they state I therefore believe that by stating that “reintroduction efforts would lead to
complete large carnivore guilds”, Wolf & Ripple blatantly ignore many of the Earth’s most
quintessential predators. Taxonomic chauvinism has long led to a biased body of research that
does not is lead to a realistic model of the disproportionate to the frequency and magnitude of
the species ecological roles of different species. Their , and their paper is another example of
lack of balance in global analyses of species ecologyin relation to apex predators. Attention to
predators that in fact have more varies marginal feeding habits such as like omnivory, as well
as to the need to include non-mammalian predators, and the need for reliable global
databases data on species presence lacking in global databases are all are essential to the
study of ecology. Ignoring these factors , results in biased conclusions that are of questionable
value in constructing and carrying out conservation policy in this age of extremely scarce
funding for conservation.otherwise building a reductive representation that includes only
charismatic fauna. While amusing, the tale of ecologists who cannot distinguish sheep from
dogs leaves an interesting lesson: we might be able to advance conservation science by
crunching large datasets, but a failure to ground-truth findings and understand the elementary
natural history of study organisms may be not only misleading, but dangerous. And by the way,
the “cheetah” in Wolf & Ripple Figure 1 is a leopard.
Data accessibility
Does not apply to this comment.
Competing interests
I have no competing interests.
Authors' contributions
EBPM conceived and wrote this comment.
Funding statement
I greatly appreciate the generous financial support of the following donors: Rufford Small
Grants Foundation (18743-1 and 23022-2), Rainforest Biodiversity Group, Idea Wild, The
Mamont Scholars Program of the Explorer’s Club Exploration Fund, Cleveland Metroparks Zoo,
and the SouthWild.com Conservation Travel System.
Research Ethics
Ethical approval from ethics committee does not apply to this comment.
Animal ethics
Does not apply to this comment.
Permission to carry out fieldwork
Does not apply to this comment.
Acknowledgements
Luísa Genes started the discussion which resulted in this comment, for which I am grateful.
This work received major logistical support from the Peugeot-ONF Brasil Carbon Sink
Reforestation Project, based at Fazenda São Nicolau in the Municipality of Cotriguaçu, Mato
Grosso, Brazil. This ambitious project is an initiative of Peugeot to fulfill directives of the Kyoto
Protocol.
References
1. Wolf C, Ripple WJ. 2018 Rewilding the world’s large carnivores. R. Soc. Open Sci. 5,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172235.
2. Bargali HS, Akhtar N, Chauhan NPS. 2004 Feeding ecology of sloth bears in a disturbed
area in central India. Ursus 15, 212–217.
3. Sacco T, Van Valkenburgh B. 2004 Ecomorphological indicators of feeding behaviour in
the bears (Carnivora: Ursidae). J. Zool. 263, 41–54.
4. Fredriksson GM, Wich SA, Trisno. 2006 Frugivory in sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) is
linked to El Nino-related fluctuations in fruiting phenology, East Kalimantan, Indonesia.
Biol. J. Linn. Soc. 89, 489–508.
5. Troya V, Cuesta F, Peralvo M. 2004 Food habits of Andean bears in the Oyacachi River
basin, Ecuador. Ursus 15, 57–60.
6. Bull EL, Torgersen TR, Wertz TL. 2001 The importance of vegetation, insects, and
neonate ungulates in black bear diet in northeastern Oregon. Northwest Sci. 75, 244–
253.
7. Huygens OC, Miyashita T, Dahle B, Carr M, Izumiyama S, Sugawara T, Hayashi H. 2003
Diet and feeding habits of Asiatic black bears in the Northern Japanese Alps. Ursus 14,
236–245.
8. Reid D, Jiang M, Teng Q, Qin Z, Hu J. 1991 Ecology of the Asiatic black bear (Ursus
thibetanus) in Sichuan, China. Mammalia 55, 221–237.
9. Rode KD, Robbins CT. 2000 Why bears consume mixed diets during fruit abundance.
Can. J. Zool. 78, 1640–1645.
10. Fortin JK, Farley SD, Rode KD, Robbins CT. 2007 Dietary and spatial overlap between
sympatric ursids relative to salmon use. Ursus 18, 19–29.
11. Cavalcanti S, Gese E. 2010 Kill rates and predation patterns of jaguars (Panthera onca)
in the southern Pantanal, Brazil. J. Mammal. 91, 722–736.
12. Kamler JF, Johnson A, Vongkhamheng C, Bousa A. 2012 The diet, prey selection, and
activity of dholes (Cuon alpinus) in northern Laos. J. Mammal. 93, 627–633.
13. Farhadinia MS, Hosseini-Zavarei F, Nezami B, Harati H, Absalan H, Fabiano E, Marker L.
2012 Feeding ecology of the Asiatic cheetah Acinonyx jubatus venaticus in low prey
habitats in northeastern Iran: Implications for effective conservation. J. Arid Environ. 87,
206–211.
14. Sergio F et al. 2014 Towards a cohesive, holistic view of top predation: a definition,
synthesis and perspective. Oikos 123, 1234–1234. (doi:10.1111/oik.01468)
15. Sekercioglu CH. 2006 Increasing awareness of avian ecological function. Trends Ecol.
Evol. 21, 464–471.
16. Miranda EBP. 2017 The Plight of Reptiles as Ecological Actors in the Tropics. Front. Ecol.
Evol. 5, 159.
17. Ryan C. 1998 Saltwater crocodiles as tourist attractions. J. Sustain. Tour. 6, 314–327.
18. Curti M, Valdez U. 2009 Incorporating community education in the strategy for Harpy
Eagle conservation in Panama. J. Environ. Educ. 40, 3–16.
19. Miranda EBP, Ribeiro-Jr. RP, Strüssmann C. 2016 The ecology of human-anaconda
conflict: a study using internet videos. Trop. Conserv. Sci. 9, 26–60.
20. McPherson SC, Brown M, Downs CT. 2015 Diet of the crowned eagle (Stephanoaetus
coronatus) in an urban landscape: potential for human-wildlife conflict? Urban Ecosyst.
, 1–14. (doi:10.1007/s11252-015-0500-6)
21. Trinca C, Ferrari S, Lees A. 2008 Curiosity killed the bird: arbitrary hunting of Harpy
Eagles <i>Harpia harpyja<i/> on an agricultural frontier in southern Brazilian Amazonia.
Cotinga 30, 12–15.
22. Natusch DJ, Lyons JA, Riyanto A, Shine R. 2016 Jungle Giants: Assessing Sustainable
Harvesting in a Difficult-to-Survey Species (Python reticulatus. PLoS One 11, e0158397.
23. Lyly MS, Villers A, Koivisto E, Helle P, Ollila T, Korpimäki E. 2015 Avian top predator and
the landscape of fear: responses of mammalian mesopredators to risk imposed by the
golden eagle. Ecol. Evol. 5, 503–514.
24. Makarieva AM, Gorshkov VG, Li B-L. 2005 Gigantism, temperature and metabolic rate in
terrestrial poikilotherms. Proc. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 272, 2325–8.
(doi:10.1098/rspb.2005.3223)
25. Doody SJ, Sims RA, Letnic M. 2007 Environmental Manipulation to Avoid a Unique
Predator: Drinking Hole Excavation in the Agile Wallaby, Macropus agilis. Ethology 113,
128–136. (doi:10.1111/j.1439-0310.2006.01298.x)
26. Subalusky AL, Dutton CL, Rosi EJ, Post DM. 2017 Annual mass drownings of the
Serengeti wildebeest migration influence nutrient cycling and storage in the Mara River.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 114, 7647–7652. (doi:10.1073/pnas.1614778114)
27. McCleery RA, Sovie A, Reed RN, Cunningham MW, Hunter ME, Hart KM. 2015 Marsh
rabbit mortalities tie pythons to the precipitous decline of mammals in the Everglades.
Proc. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 282, 20150120. (doi:10.1098/rspb.2015.0120)
28. Dorcas ME et al. 2012 Severe mammal declines coincide with proliferation of invasive
Burmese pythons in Everglades National Park. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 109, 2418–
22. (doi:10.1073/pnas.1115226109)
29. Nifong J, Silliman B. 2013 Impacts of a large-bodied, apex predator (Alligator
mississippiensis Daudin 1801) on salt marsh food webs. J. Exp. Mar. Bio. Ecol. 440, 185–
191.
30. Ripple WJ, Larsen EJ. 2000 Historic aspen recruitment, elk, and wolves in northern
Yellowstone National Park, USA. Biol. Conserv. 95, 361–370.
31. Stephens D, Brown J, Ydenberg R. 2007 Foraging: behavior and ecology. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press. See https://books.google.com.br/books?hl=pt-
BR&lr=&id=5UvZT5BL6ZkC&oi=fnd&pg=PR5&dq=foraging+stephens+2007&ots=zFd3YH
kDkF&sig=RYJmybH7x2hQPZI-PxXs8WISz5o.
32. Campos Z, Magnusson WE. 2016 Density and Biomass Estimates by Removal for an
Amazonian Crocodilian, Paleosuchus palpebrosus. PLoS One 11, e0156406.
33. Cavalcanti SMC, Crawshaw PGJ, Pires L, Santiago MEB, Rech TC. 2016 Predation of an
adult puma by an anaconda in south-eastern Brazil. Cat News 63, 5–6.
34. Fredriksson GM. 2005 Predation on sun bears by reticulated python in East Kalimantan,
Indonesian Borneo. raffles Bull. Zool. 53, 197–200.
35. Das CS, Jana R. 2017 Human–crocodile conflict in the Indian Sundarban: an analysis of
spatio-temporal incidences in relation to people’s livelihood. Oryx , 1–8.
36. Rivas JA. 2015 Natural History of the Green Anaconda: with emphasis on its
reproductive biology. South Carolina: CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform.
See http://www.amazon.com/Natural-History-Green-Anaconda-
reproductive/dp/1519547943/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1452952049&sr=8-
1&keywords=rivas+anaconda.
37. Goursi U, Awan M, Minhas R, Ali U, Kabir M, Dar N. 2012 Status and Conservation of
Indian Rock Python (Python molurus molurus) in Deva Vatala National Park, Azad
Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan. Pak. J. Zool. 44, 1507–1514.
38. Shine R, Harlow PSP, Keogh JS. 1998 The influence of sex and body size on food habits
of a giant tropical snake, Python reticulatus. Funct. Ecol. 12, 248–258.
(doi:10.1046/j.1365-2435.1998.00179.x)
39. Athreya V, Odden M, Linnell J. 2014 A cat among the dogs: leopard Panthera pardus
diet in a human-dominated landscape in western Maharashtra, India. Oryx , 1–7.
(doi:10.1017/s0030605314000106)
40. Balme GA, Hunter LT. 2013 Why leopards commit infanticide. Anim. Behav. 86, 791–
799.
41. Sorensen O, Totsas M, Solstad T, Rigg R. 2008 Predation by a golden eagle on a brown
bear cub. Ursus 19, 190–193.
42. Aguiar-Silva F, Sanaiotti T, Luz B. 2014 Food habits of the Harpy Eagle, a top predator
from the Amazonian rainforest canopy. J. Raptor Res. 48, 24–45.
43. McGraw WS, Cooke C, Shultz S. 2006 Primate remains from African crowned eagle
(Stephanoaetus coronatus) nests in Ivory Coast’s Tai Forest: Implications for primate
predation and early hominid taphonomy in South Africa. Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 131,
151–165.
44. Abaño TRC, Salvador DJ, Ibañez JC. 2016 First nesting record of Philippine Eagle
Pithecophaga jefferyi from Luzon, Philippines, with notes on diet and breeding biology.
Forktail 32, 86–88.
45. Kier G, Kreft H, Lee TM, Jetz W, Ibisch PL, Nowicki C, Mutke J, Barthlot W. 2009 A global
assessment of endemism and species richness across island and mainland regions. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. 106, 9322–9327.
46. Ellis EC, Antill EC, Kreft H. 2012 All is not loss: plant biodiversity in the Anthropocene.
PLoS One 7, e30535.
47. Orihuela G, Terborgh J, Ceballos N, Glander K. 2014 When Top-Down Becomes Bottom
Up: Behaviour of Hyperdense Howler Monkeys (Alouatta seniculus) Trapped on a 0.6
Ha Island. PLoS One 9, e82197.
48. Touchton J, Hsu Y, Palleroni A. 2002 Foraging ecology of reintroduced captive-bred
subadult harpy eagles (<i>Harpia harpyja<i/>) on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.
Ornitol. Neotrop. 13, 365–379.
49. Chakarov N, Krüger O. 2010 Mesopredator release by an emergent superpredator: a
natural experiment of predation in a three level guild. PLoS One 5, e15229.
50. Terborgh J, Feeley K, Silman M, Nuñez P, Balukjian B. 2006 Vegetation dynamics of
predator-free land-bridge islands. J. Ecol. 94, 253–263.
51. Terborgh J et al. 2001 Ecological meltdown in predator-free forest fragments. Science
(80-. ). 294, 1923–1926.
52. PNCA/ICMBio. 2016 Plano de Manejo do Parque Nacional dos Campos Amazônicos.
53. IBDF. 1984 Plano de Manejo da Reserva Biológica do Guaporé.
54. PNPN/ICMBio. 2009 Plano de Manejo do Parque Nacional dos Pacaás Novos.
55. Sollero VT. 2005 RIMA - Usinas Hidrelétricas de Santo Antônio e Jirau.
56. SERNANP. 2012 Diagnóstico del Proceso de Actualización Plan Maestro 2011-2016.
57. CAM. 2012 Informe de Gestión 2012 - Corporación Autónoma Regional del Alto
Magdalena.
58. Pizarro JF. 2016 Ecología y conservación del oso andino (Tremarctos ornatus) en las
Áreas Naturales Protegidas del Perú.
59. Peyton B, Yerena E, Rumiz D, Ignacio Jorgenson R, Orejuela J. 1995 Status Of Wild
Andean Bears And Policies For Their Management. Ursus 10, 87–100.
60. Goldstein I, Guerrero V, Moreno R. 2008 Are there Andean bears in Panama? Ursus 19,
185–189.
61. García-Rangel S. 2012 Andean bear Tremarctos ornatus natural history and
conservation. Mamm. Rev. 42, 85–119.
62. Bernard Peyton, pers. comm.
Society Open
