Are genes faster than crabs? Mitochondrial introgression
exceeds larval dispersal during population expansion of the
invasive crab, Carcinus maenas
John A. Darling, Yi-Hsin Erica Tsai, April M. H. Blakeslee, Joe Roman
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140202.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140202
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140202.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Rike Stelkens)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
This manuscript does not contain supporting data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
I have reviewed an earlier version of this manuscript when it was submitted to Royal Society
Proceedings B (below is my earlier summary of the paper). I found that the authors have
responded to all my comments and addressed the problems I saw in the previous version. My
biggest concern were the low and uneven sample sizes in some populations, it is understandable
that this cannot be easily fixed due to the historic nature of the sampling. The paper has
improved and I can recommend the current version for publication in Royal Society Open
Science. This study by Darling et al investigates the invasion of the European green crab in the
northwest Atlantic and the associated patterns of genetic admixture. Samples were taken from 19
sampling sites in three different years. Because data from the southernmost populations is
missing in 2000, most comparative analyses were done between 2002 and 2007 data. The authors
discover discordance in the temporal dynamics of mitochondrial and nuclear genomes, using
nine nuclear microsatellite loci and one mitochondrial gene (COI). Cline analysis reveals
southward shifts of both nuclear and mitochondrial clines by ~ 200km between 2002 and 2007.
Interestingly, the mt cline expanded in both directions (north and south) from the centre and
became two times wider within 5 years (~1000km to 2000km) while the nuclear cline only
increased slightly in width. Admixture analysis reveals that the mt marker shows a larger degree
of introgression than nuclear markers (in a geographical sense) and that the extent of cytonuclear
discordance increased over time. Interestingly, the direction of mt allele introgression was
opposite from the direction of larval dispersal. The authors’ interpretation is that demographic
imbalances, and not only larval dispersal, drive the evolution of this cline (e.g. sex-biased
reproductive dynamics and/or an initial imbalance in population size at the invasion front)
causing surprisingly large stochastic shifts in allele frequency. Genes from the established
population may have been amplified through rapid demographic expansion at the invasion front,
leading to asymmetric introgression of native genes into the invasive gene pool. The manuscript
reads well, analyses are thorough, results and interpretations are coherent. Unfortunately, sample
sizes for many populations are rather small (<10 for 9 out of 19 populations), and sampling was
not done perfectly systematically (some sites are missing for certain years).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (John Wares)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, all genetic data are included in a Supplemental Data file.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision.
3
Comments to the Author(s)
I read the initial reviews and responses, which seem reasonable. My main concern about this
paper was already suggested in the previous round of reviews: the small sample sizes, and only
2-3 time points, make inference of distributional change inexact. The statistical analyses are
appropriate, but it is important to remember that these inferences have their own set of issues
and variances. Nevertheless, the story is relatively clear. Although I think the Discussion carries a
larger-than-necessary narrative given the limits to data and inference, e.g. some of what is being
seen may be stochastic and will change again when somebody decides to add more data in 4-5
years, that is science. I think if the authors are interested in making arguments about
demographic effects, having temporal micro satellite data makes the estimation of effective
population size a reasonable component of that argument. This is infrequently done but very
easy, and is actually one of the most direct inferences that could be made, particularly as some
indication of migration between the two mitochondrial populations has already been assessed
using Structure. The integrated analysis of gene flow and Ne could be highly informative to
evaluate whether their demographic argument is further supported by differences in Ne between
the two lineages, bearing in mind that the oceanographic structure of the system may itself
influence Ne by establishing source-sink dynamics. Otherwise the paper is well written and I
believe a useful contribution for invasion biology as well as range-edge dynamics.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
05-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Darling
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140202 entitled
"Are genes faster than crabs? Mitochondrial introgression exceeds larval dispersal during
population expansion of the invasive crab, Carcinus maenas" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that
you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format).
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account.
4
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript.
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140202.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
As recommended by John Wares (reviewer #2), we conducted analyses to estimate effective
population sizes for northern and southern lineages. Unfortunately, these estimates proved
difficult to interpret given the complexities of invasion history in our study region. We consulted
via email with Dr. Wares regarding our approach, and in the end we all concluded that the
inclusion of results from this new analysis is unlikely to add anything of considerable value to the
manuscript, and runs the risk of distracting from the main conclusions. Given our
correspondence with Dr. Wares (appended below), we have decided not to introduce the
estimates of effective population size, and as this was the only suggestion we received for
potential revision we plan to leave our manuscript as it was originally submitted. Hopefully this
resolution is acceptable to the journal.
The following is text from email correspondence between myself and Dr. Wares:
John,
good to hear from you and yes totally appropriate to open up the conversation. I appreciate you
giving this an effort, and essentially this is exactly what I had in mind to do. I had thought that it
might add something to the argument about the direction of demographic spread, even though I
knew you couldn't estimate Ne/N ratios or anything like that it seemed of value. I don't know if
Jorde and Ryman approach (or any of the methods in NeEstimator) works with joint probabilities
of Ne and migration, but I certainly didn't intend to send you down a long goose chase either.
My sense is that with the results you have - and I have cc'd my student Christine Ewers who has
also been working with this package recently, in case she can add her thoughts - that including
these results in the paper would just be a distraction for most readers. The result you obtain for
the north seems reasonable (?), and the direction of the demographic imbalance is what you
would expect, but the value is extraordinarily low for the southern populations of crabs. Even
though there was likely a bottleneck involved, (a) I doubt that it eliminated much heterozygosity
(allelic diversity often goes down, but with diverse microsats the overall heterozygosity is often
still pretty high following introduction) and (b) temporal estimators should reflect how drift is
influencing the population NOW, less influenced by the demographic history - so this is strange.
If this is something that your response to Royal Society hinges on how you respond to my review,
please consider my review as something reflecting what I'm curious about, not something that
the paper would suffer without it! So I really appreciate you contacting me, and hopefully I can
relieve some stress at your end by telling you to tell the editors that I'm OK with you not
including these results, as they are interesting but perhaps without more context not all that
useful. Overall though - and this is where Christine maybe can shed some light on this - I think
5
more such effective population size information out there in the world would be of interest, in
part so we could start to explore what answers are in line with expectations and which ones are
not.
What do you think?
best
John
On Sep 11, 2014, at 12:54 PM, Darling, John wrote:
Hi John,
I recently received reviews for a paper that I submitted with some colleagues to Royal Society
Open Science, after it was initially rejected from Proceedings B. You may remember this
submission, since you are listed as one of two reviewers. I figure since this was open review it’s
ok to contact you with a question regarding one of your suggestions. You indicated in your
review that obtaining estimates of Ne might be a reasonable thing to do, given that we have
temporal msat data. I’ve attempted to do that, with some mixed results, using the new version of
NeEstimator. The most reasonable estimates are arrived at using the method of Jorde and Ryman,
and I used our structure results to cluster samples so that we could get an estimate of Ne for both
southern and northern lineages across the sampling timeframe (2000 to 2007). Other methods
gave estimates that almost universally overlapped with infinity (or in some cases were negative).
Ne 95% low 95% high
South 46.4 26.8 71.2
North 7706.6 4805 11283.9
The challenge I’m having is interpreting these results in the context of our paper. We really don’t
know much about census sizes for the two populations, although both are surely very large and
the northern population has rapidly expanded quite recently. I’ve tried to limit analysis to
unadmixed samples to avoid effects of migration, but that probably can’t be completely
eliminated. I’m inclined to think that the extremely high Ne in the north is partly the result of
very large propagule pools introduced via ballast water, possibly even repeatedly from the same
or similar sources. The south, in contrast, likely experienced a very pronounced bottleneck on
first introduction. But I’m still quite surprised by the very low Ne there, given that census sizes
should have been very high for nearly 75 generations now.
I would say that the overall result is at least consistent with our demographic argument (i.e. a
very large northern population encountering a more sparse southern population at its northern
limit), but I’m not sure how much it adds and I’m frankly somewhat suspicious of the estimates.
In general, I’m not really sure what I would expect a priori of Ne estimates for these lineages
given the complex invasion history. My co-authors and I are wondering if you had something
more sophisticated in mind with your suggestion. Exploring Ne definitely seems like something
worth doing, we’re just having a hard time figuring out what to make of it.
Thanks, and sorry for the longish email.
jd
*****************************************
John A. Darling, Ph.D.
Senior Research Biologist
Ecological Exposure Research Division
National Exposure Research Laboratory
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Research Triangle Park, NC 27711
MD-D305-01; Office: E478
Phone: (919) 541-1912; Fax: (919) 541-7588
Society Open
