Effects of habitat performance and land use intensity on the
genetic structure of the grasshopper species Chorthippus
parallelus
Kerstin R. Wiesner, Jan Christian Habel, Martin M. Gossner, Hugh D. Loxdale, Günter
Köhler, Anja R. R. Schneider, Ralph Tiedemann, Wolfgang W. Weisser
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140133.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140133
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 25 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140133.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Martin Husemann)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
allele frequencies should be submitted as additional supplemental file.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
Effects of habitat performance and land use intensity on the genetic structure on the grasshopper
species Chorthippus parallelus In the underlying manuscript the authors study the impact of
land-use intensity and other habitat characteristics on the abundance and genetic diversity of a
common grasshopper species. They have measured habitat characteristics, estimated abundance
and used microsatellite data as measure of genetic diversity. Land-use had an effect on
abundance, whereas genetic diversity was not affected. The authors interpret this lack of effects
of fragmentation as a result of large population sizes and high ecological tolerance. The paper is
interesting as most studies address the impacts of fragmentation on rare species. Here a common
species is studied. Such common species are thought to be ecologically more important than most
rare species, yet they are generally less studied as they are generally less threatened. However, it
is important to understand how common species react to fragmentation. As such the study is
valuable. The manuscript is generally well written and used appropriate analyses. My main
comment is the lack of examples from other species than the study organism in the introduction
and discussion. I think the paper would benefit from such comparisons as it is difficult to
evaluate for example high genetic diversity without comparison to other organisms. Further the
authors could generate estimates of the population census size or the individual densities. Instead
they only record total counts. On a minor note there are quite a few smaller language problems
which need to be solved before the paper can be accepted. In the following I list suggestions to
resolve some of the language issues (the list is not comprehensive). Line 38: only not capitalized
Line 41: large local populations and high abundance seems to be similar. What are the
differences? Line 46: suffer Line 47: decrease in habitat size and potential negative edge effects.
Line 53: local extinction Line 54: subsequent loss of Line 55: population persistence and genetic
diversity Lines 57-58: The second part of the sentence lacks a verb. Lines 62-63: (e.g. ecological
amplitude of a species), behavior (e.g. dispersal ability)… Line 66: common (not capitalized) Line
67: depends on Line 67: explain diet mixing, please Line 68: functional group diversity Line 71:
the paragraph starts very similar like the sentence in line 63; maybe change the structure a little
Line 82: delete surrounding Line 96: … Germany, which is part … Line 109: How was the index
generated? Describe briefly! Line 136: …individuals (including juveniles and adults), … Line 138:
femur of the hind leg Line 139: provide a reference for the salting out procedure or describe
briefly Line 147: Tests of… Line 156: Genetic variance found among… Line 159: put formula in
brackets Line 168: In a second analysis… Line 174: Provide a reference for the R package Line 183:
Provide values for the sites Line 186: explaining 0.0223 of the molecular variance… Line 202: The
sweep netting resulted in total numbers of individuals between 3 and 124. Line 212: This is not a
complete meaningful sentence. Revise please! Line 221: What do you mean with “at high level”?
Line 237: opposite genetic patterns having low genetic… Line 252: but suffers from Line 253:
“reasons” does not seem to be the appropriate word here Line 259: how can the grass be too tall
for netting grasshoppers? Line 266: population sizes are high- could you provide evidence from
the data; what is the density or estimated population size? Line 269: which differences are you
talking about here? Line 279: heterozygosity is written wrong Line 281: measurements of … Line
287: again you are talking about high densities. Can you provide actual estimates of the density
from your data? Figure 1: Could you provide an outline of Germany with the position of the
sampling area indicated. Table 1: Shannon-W diversity? Table 1: Can you provide estimates of
individual densities or census population size? Table 2: AR based on the … Table 3: what does
the grey shading indicate? Why are so many parts of the table empty? Will the actual allele
frequencies be submitted at supplemental material? I hope these suggestions help the authors to
improve the manuscript! Good luck! Kind regards! Martin Husemann Martin Luther University
Halle-Wittenberg
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Jose Bella)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I find accessible all supporting data
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
I find this ms interesting, concise and well written. I think it offers a new and valuable approach
to examining the potential effects of variation in land-use intensity on the genetic diversity of a
local population, this time using as model an abundant “generalist” organism, the common
meadow grasshopper, C. parallelus. In my opinion, the authors have used suitable methods to
measure appropriate variables in a considerable number of individuals from a wide range of
locations. Tables and figures are relevant and the references are up-to-date and comprehensive.
The results obtained are somewhat counterintuitive. The authors only found marginal genetic
differentiation among all local populations and no correlation between geographic and genetic
distance. On the other hand, population abundance, land-use intensity and the genetic structure
of the metapopulation are not related, although the expected heterozygosity (a rather imprecise
index, it should be noted) and abundance, reflect some relationships with the ecological variables
analyzed. The discussion adequately addresses these results, offering a good explanation for this
rather unexpected scenario. In fact, I think this it what makes the ms valuable and of outstanding
interest, given that it deals with a non-specialized, widespread species instead of a specialized or
an endangered organism. From this point of view, the ms offers a model for many systems and
organisms that are usually overlooked. I also find it remarkable that the strong fragmentation of
the habitats has no effect on the genetic diversity and differentiation of the organism studied, so
pointing out the importance of the population size and the gene flow among apparently patched
populations. This, as well as the high level of variation in the abundance of the organism noted,
deserve further attention, given the often reported low dispersal of this grasshopper. Finally, I
think that this work poses a constructive model of population genetic structure with high
diversity and low differentiation that is not affected by land-use intensity and fragmentation; a
model suitable for common, generalist species. As stated above, I particularly admire this study
for its focus on a normal, common system, instead of on a rare, exceptional situation. This makes
it of broad interest, in my opinion. JLB UAM - Spain.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter
18-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Habel
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140133 entitled
"Effects of habitat performance and land use intensity on the genetic structure of the grasshopper
species Chorthippus parallelus" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments below. The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also
suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the
comments and revise your manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a
condition of publication that you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If
you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140133.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Dear Dr. Wray,
We are very happy about the positive evaluation of our manuscript and about the
acceptance for publication in the journal Royal Society Open Science. We apologize for
our late response and re-submission of our R1-version; some of the authors (including
myself) were travelling during the past weeks.
We would like to thank the reviewers for their very valuable and constructive comments
on our manuscript. We have addressed all issues raised by the reviewers. In particular,
(i) We added further details on the genetics of generalist versus specialist species
in the introduction and in particular in the discussion section;
(ii) We now explain in detail why population density estimates or estimates on the
population census sizes were not calculated;
(iii) We produced new versions of figure 1 and figure 2
(iv) We went through the entire manuscript to add further details and to
streamline the text.
In the following we respond in detail to all points raised by the referees.
We hope that this revised version is acceptable for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
Sincerely,
Jan Habel (on behalf of all authors)
**************************
18-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Habel
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140133
entitled "Effects of habitat performance and land use intensity on the genetic structure of the
grasshopper species Chorthippus parallelus" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some
minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and
revise your manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you
submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
Answer: We apologize the delay; some of the authors (including myself) were on
travelling until beginning of September. We hope that you still can consider this revised
version.
….
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
Answer: Done, doc-file uploaded
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
Answer: Done, separate PDFs of each figure and table were uploaded
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
Answer: Media-summary (94 words) now written and uploaded.
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include
your data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the
relevant doi within your manuscript
Answer: Raw-data (gene-pop file) provided as electronic Supplementary Material.
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Answer: Supplementary files formatted in a proper way – without line numbers etc.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I
look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not
hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
**************************
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
In the underlying manuscript the authors study the impact of land-use intensity and other
habitat characteristics on the abundance and genetic diversity of a common grasshopper
species. They have measured habitat characteristics, estimated abundance and used
microsatellite data as measure of genetic diversity. Land-use had an effect on abundance,
whereas genetic diversity was not affected. The authors interpret this lack of effects of
fragmentation as a result of large population sizes and high ecological tolerance.
The paper is interesting as most studies address the impacts of fragmentation on rare species.
Here a common species is studied. Such common species are thought to be ecologically more
important than most rare species, yet they are generally less studied as they are generally less
threatened. However, it is important to understand how common species react to
fragmentation. As such the study is valuable.
The manuscript is generally well written and used appropriate analyses. My main comment is
the lack of examples from other species than the study organism in the introduction and
discussion. I think the paper would benefit from such comparisons as it is difficult to evaluate
for example high genetic diversity without comparison to other organisms.
Answer: Thank you for this valuable suggestion. Results from other molecular genetic
studies on grasshoppers but also from other groups of invertebrates (i.e. butterflies)
were added to the introduction and in particular in the discussion section. This
additional information well supports the interpretation of our findings.
Further the authors could generate estimates of the population census size or the individual
densities. Instead they only record total counts.
Answer: We did not calculate an estimate of population census size based on our sweep-
netting data, i.e. number of individuals/ha, as the total area sweepnetted is not precisely
known. In our view, the total counts are a more reliable measure that can be compared
between sites.
On a minor note there are quite a few smaller language problems which need to be solved
before the paper can be accepted.
In the following I list suggestions to resolve some of the language issues (the list is not
comprehensive).
Line 38: only not capitalized
Line 41: large local populations and high abundance seems to be similar. What are the
differences?
Line 46: suffer
Line 47: decrease in habitat size and potential negative edge effects.
Line 53: local extinction
Line 54: subsequent loss of
Line 55: population persistence and genetic diversity
Answer: All corrected accordingly
Lines 57-58: The second part of the sentence lacks a verb.
Answer: Reworded, this sentence now reads “Negative edge effects can be observed if
the surrounding landscape gets intensively used, and vice versa, positive edge effects can
be observed if the population gets surrounded by landscape structures providing
suitable habitat structures.”
Lines 62-63: (e.g. ecological amplitude of a species), behavior (e.g. dispersal ability)…
Line 66: common (not capitalized)
Line 67: depends on
Answer: All corrected accordingly
Line 67: explain diet mixing, please
Answer: We expanded the paragraph for clarification. It now reads (page xx, lines xx):
“For example studies on the Common Grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus showed that
individual fitness strongly depends on from dietary mixing and thus on the composition
of the vegetation. Survival as well as fecundity of C. parallelus increased with the
number of foodplants in experimental studies [7,8]. Dietary mixing has thus been
proposed as a possibility for generalists to overcome nutritional deficiencies of single
plant species
Line 68: functional group diversity
Answer: Corrected accordingly
Line 71: the paragraph starts very similar like the sentence in line 63; maybe change the
structure a little
Answer: Sentence reworded
Line 82: delete surrounding
Line 96: … Germany, which is part …
Answer: Corrected accordingly
Line 109: How was the index generated? Describe briefly!
Answer: Index-generation briefly described now in the text (page xx, lines xx).
Line 136: …individuals (including juveniles and adults), …
Line 138: femur of the hind leg
Line 139: provide a reference for the salting out procedure or describe briefly
Line 147: Tests of…
Line 156: Genetic variance found among…
Line 159: put formula in brackets
Line 168: In a second analysis…
Line 174: Provide a reference for the R package
Line 183: Provide values for the sites
Line 186: explaining 0.0223 of the molecular variance…
Line 202: The sweep netting resulted in total numbers of individuals between 3 and 124.
Answer: All corrected accordingly
Line 212: This is not a complete meaningful sentence. Revise please!
Answer: Sentence revised, this sentence now reads (page xx, lines xx): “Genetic diversity
was not strongly affected by habitat size, land-use intensity and the surrounding
landscape, except for the expected heterozygosity: Here, a positive relationship between
habitat size and He could be observed at high land-use intensity (Fig. 2). Further, He was
negatively affected by the abundance at low land-use intensity, but positively at medium
and high land-use intensity (Fig. 2).”
Line 221: What do you mean with “at high level”?
Answer: Now elaborated and clarified in the text by including various comparative
studies on genetic diversity and abundance (see page xx, lines xx).
Line 237: opposite genetic patterns having low genetic…
Line 252: but suffers from
Line 253: “reasons” does not seem to be the appropriate word here
Answer: All corrected and reworded accordingly
Line 259: how can the grass be too tall for netting grasshoppers?
Answer: We excluded this sentence.
Line 266: population sizes are high- could you provide evidence from the data; what is the
density or estimated population size?
Answer: We have reworded this section completely.
Line 279: heterozygosity is written wrong
Line 281: measurements of …
Answer: Both corrected
Line 287: again you are talking about high densities. Can you provide actual estimates of the
density from your data?
Answer: We have corrected the terms and excluded the term density throughout the
manuscript.
Figure 1: Could you provide an outline of Germany with the position of the sampling area
indicated.
Answer: We provide an new map in the R1-version, including an outline of Germany
indicating the position of the sampling area.
Table 1: Shannon-W diversity?
Answer: We corrected this throughout the manuscript (always changed into Shannon
diversity index)
Table 1: Can you provide estimates of individual densities or census population size?
Answer: See above
Table 2: AR based on the …
Answer: Reworded accordingly
Table 3: what does the grey shading indicate? Why are so many parts of the table empty?
Answer: The table shows the final models after model simplification. They grey cells
indicate variables that are deleted during model simplification. We added one sentence
to the table heading for clarification: “Grey shaded cells indicate variables that are
deleted during model simplification.”
Will the actual allele frequencies be submitted at supplemental material?
Answer: Yes, we will provide the allele frequencies as electronic supplementary material
I hope these suggestions help the authors to improve the manuscript! Good luck!
Kind regards!
Martin Husemann
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg
Thank you very much for the many helpful and valuable comments on our first version.
Reviewer: 2
I find this ms interesting, concise and well written. I think it offers a new and valuable
approach to examining the potential effects of variation in land-use intensity on the genetic
diversity of a local population, this time using as model an abundant “generalist” organism,
the common meadow grasshopper, C. parallelus.
In my opinion, the authors have used suitable methods to measure appropriate variables in a
considerable number of individuals from a wide range of locations. Tables and figures are
relevant and the references are up-to-date and comprehensive.
The results obtained are somewhat counterintuitive. The authors only found marginal genetic
differentiation among all local populations and no correlation between geographic and genetic
distance. On the other hand, population abundance, land-use intensity and the genetic
structure of the metapopulation are not related, although the expected heterozygosity (a rather
imprecise index, it should be noted) and abundance, reflect some relationships with the
ecological variables analyzed. The discussion adequately addresses these results, offering a
good explanation for this rather unexpected scenario. In fact, I think this it what makes the ms
valuable and of outstanding interest, given that it deals with a non-specialized, widespread
species instead of a specialized or an endangered organism. From this point of view, the ms
offers a model for many systems and organisms that are usually overlooked.
I also find it remarkable that the strong fragmentation of the habitats has no effect on the
genetic diversity and differentiation of the organism studied, so pointing out the importance of
the population size and the gene flow among apparently patched populations. This, as well as
the high level of variation in the abundance of the organism noted, deserve further attention,
given the often reported low dispersal of this grasshopper.
Finally, I think that this work poses a constructive model of population genetic structure with
high diversity and low differentiation that is not affected by land-use intensity and
fragmentation; a model suitable for common, generalist species. As stated above, I
particularly admire this study for its focus on a normal, common system, instead of on a rare,
exceptional situation. This makes it of broad interest, in my opinion.
Answer: Thank you very much for your positive evaluation and your interest in our
article.
JLB
UAM - Spain
Society Open
