Drosophila enhancer-Gal4 lines show ectopic expression
during development
Sergio Casas-Tintó, Mercedes Arnés and Alberto Ferrús
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170039.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170039
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 December 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 13 January 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 24 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 27 February 2017
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter 1 (RSOS-161041)
04-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Casas-Tinto:
I write you in regards to manuscript RSOS-161041 entitled "Drosophila enhancer-Gal4 lines show
ectopic expression during development" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science.
The associate editor has reviewed the paper, and their comments are below. The editor concludes
that the work is somewhat preliminary, and that further work would be required before
publication is merited - for example, the study of the mechanisms of ectopic expression and
whether any general principles can be elucidated. In view of the criticisms of the editor, found at
the bottom of this letter, your manuscript has been rejected for publication.
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Thank you for considering Royal Society Open Science for the publication of your research. I
hope this decision will not discourage you from submitting manuscripts in the future.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
In this manuscript the authors assay 14 random GAL4 insertions that are expressed in neurons in
Drosophila for ectopic and unexpected expression in other tissues. They do see ectopic expression
in a set of such enhancer insertions and describe those further. In no case do the authors make
any attempt at making further constructs of the “enhancers” to define those better, or to find
transcriptional activators that might bind to those sites. Nor do they come to some more general
conclusion other than, yes, a few of the enhancer GAL4 lines show some ectopic expression, but,
for instance in the case of ELAV, no protein results from this expression. Therefore it remains
unclear what is actually shown by the manuscript and what a reader should take away as a clear
biological lesson. Studies involving smFISH, such as performed, e.g. by the Levine laboratory,
have already shown that initially enhancers can be expressed much more widely and in
stochastic manners than anticipated, but then “sharpen” expression over time. But those
activation patterns are very short lived and do not lead to protein accumulation. The study here
cannot distinguish such subtleties, but may in fact be misleading, proposing a problem where
none exists. The study therefore remains at the anecdotal level - a few lines do A, a few lines B,
and one line does C - but a general lesson cannot be drawn, neither is it clear whether these
ectopic expression patterns matter at all.
Author's Response to Decision Letter 1 for (RSOS-161041):
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter 2 (RSOS-161041, appeal decision)
12-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Casas-Tinto:
Following your appeal of manuscript ID RSOS-161041 entitled "Drosophila enhancer-Gal4 lines
show ectopic expression during development", your rebuttal has now been reviewed.
In light of the concerns raised, we would like to invite you to resubmit your manuscript to Royal
Society Open Science, taking into consideration the Associate Editor's below. Please note that
resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that your
resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
3
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 12-Jul-2017. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Your rebuttal letter, has made it much clearer what the purpose of your study was, and how the
results should be evaluated by the reader. However, this was not clear when reading the present
version of the manuscript. As a “general reader” the impression was that a few random GAL4
lines were chosen without any more specific purpose, out of literally hundreds that are known to
be expressed in the nervous system. To these few you applied your tracing methods and then
attempted to draw some general conclusions. It would therefore be important that you change
the text in your manuscript to make the logic of the study clear to the reader, in particular:
In the Introduction line 56: “To determine… we analyzed several..” Please add a sentence or two
stating: “These lines were chosen specifically for their reported expression pattern…and in
particular, we focused on lines that are widely used…” (or whatever best describes how you
made the choices). As pointed out above, there are hundreds of GAL4 lines established by the
Ruben/Janelia Institute efforts that are expressed in the nervous system, and it is not sufficient to
just state that you chose 14 that are expressed there.
Under your subheading “The ectopic activation of enhancers does not lead to expression of their
native gene” (line 223) you completely obscure the finding that the enhancer can drive expression
of Basket with functional consequences. You should create a separate subheading in which you
state: “The ectopic activation of enhancers can lead to functionally relevant misexpression in the
GAL4-UAS system” – or a similar subheading. There, those Basket experiments and any others
that you might have done would be described. This will make it clear to the reader that these
ectopic expression patterns can lead to functional consequences. Of course, it would have been
better to test this in a few more cases, but at least that one case is convincing. As it is now, the
reader will completely overlook this result, because of the emphasis in the subheading “…does
NOT lead to expression…”
At the end of the subheading: “Do all nervous system enhancers have epithelial ectopic activity?”
(line 266), it would be good to give a summary along the statement: “..of the 14 lines that we have
investigated X show such ectopic expression in epithelia and Y do not…” or however you think it
is best to formulate a clear summary finding. And then add your conclusion: “ It is therefore
crucial before using such GAL4 lines to determine whether they fall into the class of enhancer
driven lines that also show ectopic expression in other tissues..”
4
These textual additions would make it clearer to the reader what the take-home lesson from your
study are.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170039)
01-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Casas-Tinto
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170039 entitled
"Drosophila enhancer-Gal4 lines show ectopic expression during development" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the suggestions below. Please find the Associate Editor's comments at the end of this email,
which indicate that it can be accepted in its present form.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170039
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
5
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 10-Feb-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
6
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
In the revised manuscript, the authors have provided a much clearer logic and set of conclusions
that derive from the manuscript. The readers should now be able to understand what the results
imply and what can be taken away from the manuscript as a general insight into work with
GAL4 lines. Given the previous reviews and the appropriate revisions made by the authors in
response to the previous reviewers, as well as the associate editor, the manuscript can be
accepted in its present form.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170039.R1)
27-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Casas-Tinto,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Drosophila enhancer-Gal4 lines show
ectopic expression during development" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
7
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Dear editor,
We have read with interest your opinions on the submitted ms and feel that we should counter
argue them. To put things in context, as the editor is likely aware of, the ms was initially
considered by Open Biology where it was reviewed. The first text version of our ms addressed
the biological issue of stochastic versus deterministic expression of genes as monitored by the
activation of enhancers. The critiques received to this first version revealed that the reported
experiments failed short to properly address that issue. Thus, we refocused the text to address a
more technical issue of wide spread consequences, the experimental use of enhancer-Gal4 lines.
These lines are routinely used to drive the expression of gene constructs to selected cell subsets
and conclusions are drawn on the bases of the genetic changes elicited in these cell subsets. The
case is particularly common in neurobiology studies. Ectopic expression, either transient or
permanent, of Gal4 lines is virtually never analyzed as demonstrated by the fact that the
GTRACE technique is rarely used in these studies. The second, refocused version of our ms was
positively evaluated in Open Biology, albeit the editor recommended transfer the ms to RSOS.
To counter argue your comments on the RSOS submitted version of our ms, let me start by the
last, certainly most relevant, issue: does ectopic expression of Gal4 lines matter? Your quote of
Levin’s laboratory work describing that, although initially stochastically expressed, enhancers
sharpen their expression with time may be taken as an excuse to conclude that ectopic
expression does not really matter after all. However, we do provide direct evidence that it does.
The experiment in which we combine a Gal4 line with the UAS-bsk construct demonstrates that
the ectopic expression of the Gal4 drives the expression of the UAS with phenotypic
consequences (see Fig. 3C, D). In agreement with the reported FISH studies, we report that the
ectopic enhancer expression does not lead to protein accumulation of the corresponding gene.
However, in our study, we do not question the mechanism of gene expression but the utilitarian
use, or misuse, of Gal4 lines and enhancer-driven constructs in general. Finally, the choice of
Gal4 lines analyzed was not random as stated in your comments. On the contrary, we targeted
widely used lines with assumed nervous system specific expression because these lines are
frequently used in neurobiological studies. Further, the chosen lines included native and
artificial constructs as well as same and different chromosomal insertion sites for the same
enhancer. Thus, the repertoire of lines was a careful choice rather than a random assortment.
It is obvious that the content of our report will be uncomfortable to many readers, but hiding the
facts under the carpet will only worsen the delayed consequences.
In the light of these arguments, we would appreciate your re-evaluation of the matter concerning
the ms. Indeed, the ms has been peer reviewed already and found suitable in the current text
version. As for the prospective audience scope, it is evident that every user of Gal4 lines will
read the paper and, hopefully, act in consequence.
Sergio Casas Tintó
scasas@cajal.csic.es
Society Open
