Role reversal in a predator-prey interaction
Faustino Sánchez-Garduño, Pedro Miramontes and Tatiana T. Marquez-
Lago
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140186.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140186
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 August 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 August 2014 appears in chronological order.
This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140186.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There were supposed to be movies but I could not find them.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Major revision is needed.
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper addresses the problem of when predator and prey reverse their roles. I had never
heard of such a thing but apparently it happens. I have not seen it modelled before so this work is
novel to me. The authors propose an ODE model which they analyse with linear stability. They
then consider the spatially extended system and present some numerical simulations. Movies are
provided in the supplementary information but unfortunately I could not find them. My detailed
comments are as follows: 1. I could not find any boundary conditions - I assume that these are
zero flux? 2. On page 11, the authors justify ignoring water flow by stating, "predation by whelks
remains seemingly unaffected by variations in water flow [18]" - could some more detail be given
here because, as it stands, it is too vague to justify the simplification. Is it the case that the rate of
predation etc is not at all influenced by variation in flow and were the variations in flow in the
citation [18] the same levels of flow as observed in the islands? 3. There is no justification given
for the kinetic parameters chosen nor for the initial conditions. 4. Figure 4 - no parameter values
given. 5. Figure 5 has no a,b,c,d labels. 6. Figure 6 - what do the times 2,6,10 mean ecologically? 7.
Figure 7 - what do the times mean ecologically? 8. In the discussion it is stated: "The analysis ...
clearly predict the coexistence of both populations and the switching of roles" - please note that
the switching of roles is put into the model right at the beginning, so switching will happen as
long as the concentration of u crosses k. From equation 10, will this always happen? Not clear
that it will, for example, if we start with u small and v small, v remains small so the logistic term
dominates and therefore u crosses k on it way to 1. Can this be proved rigorously? That is, could
this really be a prediction in the sense that we would not expect u to cross the threshold k? 9. It is
stated, "this is the first model proposed to explain role-reversals" - in what sense does it explain it
when it was explicitly put into the model? 10. It is mentioned that, "our findings are novel in that,
to the best of our knowledge, there are no reports of ecological interactions behaving as excitable
media so far". However, Truscott and Brindley use an excitable system to explain the formation
of plankton blooms -- Truscott, J. E. and Brindley, J. (1994) Ocean plankton populations as
excitable media. Bull. Math. Biol., 56, 981–998.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Stanly Steinberg)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Appendix A is missing. This will not affect my review. The data used is in the literature and
referenced.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
3
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes an extension of predator-prey models to include role reversal. The
presentation is clear and concise. The analysis is standard but not trivial. The spatial simulations
are very interesting.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
12-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Marquez-Lago
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140186 entitled
"Role reversal in a predator-prey interaction" has been tentatively accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Please also have a native speaker of English read over the manuscript to check for
small wording changes that might be made.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately. To revise your manuscript, log into
http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author Centre, where you will find your
manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a
Revision." You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
4
label_version_2
RSOS-140186.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewer's comments
See Appendix A.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
I am happy with the responses and changes the authors have made.
We are very grateful for the reviewers’ comments, which greatly enhanced the
presentation of our work. Whenever necessary, we amended the manuscript (please
refer to each point separately) and highlighted all changes in the PDF document
uploaded in the system, to ease their localisation.
Additionally, we modified the computational/Comsol notation U(0.25,0.05) denoting
a uniform distribution with mean 0.25 and range 0.05, to the more commonly used
mathematical notation U(0.2,0.3). It is important to note both descriptions are
identical, but the use of the latter is far more common. This way, readers will be able
to follow the text more easily.
3. There is no justification given for the kinetic parameters chosen nor for the
initial conditions.
The space of parameters was explored until we obtained interesting behaviours,
leading to excitable-like behaviour. An explanation of this was already included in the
Discussion, in our original submission. Now, many sets of parameters are compatible
with a given population dynamic so the final choice is, more or less, arbitrary in the
ensemble of parameters leading to the same behaviour. Regarding initial conditions,
spatial simulations are usually performed with random initial conditions. In this way,
one can claim the emergent pattern is robust with respect to variable initial conditions,
and entirely independent of any pre-pattern (which would indicate there is no new
emergent pattern, but the system just remains in equilibrium). We have included an
additional short mention of these facts in the last paragraph of Page 11.
4. Figure 4 - no parameter values given.
The Figure legend has been corrected. (k=0.8, b=0.6, c=0.3, e=0.05, f=2).
5. Figure 5 has no a,b,c,d labels.
The Figure has been corrected to enhance quality and include the labels. This change
has not been highlighted in the PDF, as it involved changing the whole Figure.
However, we highlighted the legend of this Figure for easier localisation.
6. Figure 6 - what do the times 2,6,10 mean ecologically?
7. Figure 7 - what do the times mean ecologically?
For questions 6 and 7 the answer is identical: As some change of variables and scale
were made to get the final system of differential equations, the time has no
direct/explicit ecological meaning. However, the model can be tailored to fit
ecological data (e.g. recorded time courses) by adopting experimentally measured
parameters and translating them into new ones, as prescribed by the described change
of variables.
8. In the discussion it is stated: "The analysis ... clearly predict the coexistence of
both populations and the switching of roles" - please note that the switching of
roles is put into the model right at the beginning, so switching will happen as
long as the concentration of u crosses k. From equation 10, will this always
happen? Not clear that it will, for example, if we start with u small and v small, v
remains small so the logistic term dominates and therefore u crosses k on it way
to 1. Can this be proved rigorously? That is, could this really be a prediction in
the sense that we would not expect u to cross the threshold k?
Actually the switching of roles can occur for infinitely many combinations of the
parameters. The switching occurs when a state of the system crosses the separatrix,
the unstable manifold of the saddle point in Figure 4. We have included a short
mention of these facts in the Discussion, in Page 15. Lastly, the scenario suggested by
the reviewer is very interesting, but a formal proof of this particular scenario lies
outside the scope of this paper.
9. It is stated, "this is the first model proposed to explain role-reversals" - in
what sense does it explain it when it was explicitly put into the model?
We are sure this comment must stem from a misunderstanding. Role-reversal was not
explicitly put into the system. The system was written using ecological “first
principles” on the rate of change of the variables following field observations by
Barkai and McQuaid, and role-reversal was the consequence. We have amended the
text in the Discussion to make this clearer to the readership.
10. It is mentioned that, "our findings are novel in that, to the best of our
knowledge, there are no reports of ecological interactions behaving as excitable
media so far". However, Truscott and Brindley use an excitable system to
explain the formation of plankton blooms --
Society Open
