Magnetic field inhomogeneities due to CO2 incubator
shelves: a source of experimental confounding and
variability?
L. Makinistian and I. Belyaev
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172095.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172095
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172095.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Frank Barnes)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This looks as if the measurements are well done and it is a paper I think biologist need to read.
You might include an example that shows significant changes in cell growth rates for magnetic
field variation of the size you see on a single shelf.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have provided very interesting and important information concerning the effects of
the shelving and, to a lesser extent, the body of a common incubator on the ambient DC field
experienced by cultures inside it. Though for a long time the literature has had data on the
influence of incubator incubator heaters and structures on the AC fields inside them, I do not
recall as thorough an exploration of the effect of the structures on the ambient DC field. Pointing
out the effects of manufacturing processes on the structure of the stainless steel is worthwhile.
While the paper could be accepted as is, I have a couple of comments that might strengthen it:
Authors might emphasize the distinction between incubator effects on AC and DC fields and
indicate which of their references discuss which (or both) types of effect.
Authors have located the magnetometer with a precision of down to a millimeter on their finest
grid. They do not mention the separation of the three directional sensors inside the device,
3
presumably less than a millimeter. This would be a useful number, though admittedly I was
unable to find it on a quick perusal of the manufacturer's online data sheet.
Authors talk about this problem as a potential problem in CO2 incubators. They might not want
to restrict it to incubators designed for CO2 atmospheres.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172095)
04-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Makinistian
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172095 entitled
"Magnetic field inhomogeneities due to CO2 incubators shelves: A source of experimental
confounding and variability?" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172095
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
4
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Jan-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Derek Abbott (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This looks as if the measurements are well done and it is a paper I think biologist need to read.
You might include an example that shows significant changes in cell growth rates for magnetic
field variation of the size you see on a single shelf.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have provided very interesting and important information concerning the effects of
the shelving and, to a lesser extent, the body of a common incubator on the ambient DC field
experienced by cultures inside it. Though for a long time the literature has had data on the
influence of incubator incubator heaters and structures on the AC fields inside them, I do not
recall as thorough an exploration of the effect of the structures on the ambient DC field. Pointing
out the effects of manufacturing processes on the structure of the stainless steel is worthwhile.
While the paper could be accepted as is, I have a couple of comments that might strengthen it:
Authors might emphasize the distinction between incubator effects on AC and DC fields and
indicate which of their references discuss which (or both) types of effect.
Authors have located the magnetometer with a precision of down to a millimeter on their finest
grid. They do not mention the separation of the three directional sensors inside the device,
presumably less than a millimeter. This would be a useful number, though admittedly I was
unable to find it on a quick perusal of the manufacturer's online data sheet.
Authors talk about this problem as a potential problem in CO2 incubators. They might not want
to restrict it to incubators designed for CO2 atmospheres.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172095)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172095.R1)
15-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Makinistian,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Magnetic field inhomogeneities due to
CO2 incubators shelves: A source of experimental confounding and variability?" is now accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
7
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
Response to referees' comments and other changes
ar Editor, please find below the reviewers' comments in italics, along with our
ponses in green.
viewer 1: This looks as if the measurements are well done and it is a paper I think
logist need to read. We appreciate this comment on our work. You might include an
mple that shows significant changes in cell growth rates for magnetic field variation
he size you see on a single shelf. Indeed, we appended two more sentences at the
d of the second paragraph of the DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION section:
oreover, an example of special interest for the present work is the study by Martino et
[42] on fibrosarcoma and colorectal cancer cells […]”. We also added the following to
last paragraph of the article: “along with bearing in mind the exact location of
tures inside the incubator (even on the same shelf)”.
viewer 2: The authors have provided very interesting and important information
cerning the effects of the shelving and, to a lesser extent, the body of a common
ubator on the ambient DC field experienced by cultures inside it. Though for a long
e the literature has had data on the influence of incubator incubator heaters and
uctures on the AC fields inside them, I do not recall as thorough an exploration of the
ect of the structures on the ambient DC field. Pointing out the effects of
nufacturing processes on the structure of the stainless steel is worthwhile. We
preciate these comments on our work. While the paper could be accepted as is, I
e a couple of comments that might strengthen it:
hors might emphasize the distinction between incubator effects on AC and DC fields
d indicate which of their references discuss which (or both) types of effect. We
dified and expanded the second paragraph of our INTRODUCTION: “Mild et al. [2]
asured AC fields […]”.
hors have located the magnetometer with a precision of down to a millimeter on their
st grid. They do not mention the separation of the three directional sensors inside
device, presumably less than a millimeter. This would be a useful number, though
mittedly I was unable to find it on a quick perusal of the manufacturer's online data
et. During the time we performed our measurements; we also looked for that specific
mber and failed to find it in the datasheet. We then contacted directly the
nufacturer, repeatedly, to ask for the exact size and location of the sensors inside the
p, from whom we received no answer. What we do know is that the external
ensions of the chip containing the three sensors are 3.0 x 3.0 x 0.9 mm. Being that
re are three orthogonal sensors, at least one of them (and presumably the three of
m are similar, if not identical) must be smaller than 0.9 mm. Apart from this, the
kness of the package itself must be considered, according to drawings in the US
ent 6229200 (Fig. 8 of the patent), which refers to the type of packaging of our
sor (leadless plastic chip container (LPCC), stated in its datasheet) the die (i.e., the
e of the chip, were the actual electronics is) dimensions are roughly half those of the
ernal package, which would leave us with a die of 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.45 mm. Further, the
p includes, besides the three sensors (which consist of resistive strips of a permalloy
film), an analog multiplexer, an analog-to-digital converter and a control unit that
ndles communication with external circuitry (also found in the datasheet). All of this
rmation is, in our opinion, enough to make it reasonable to say that sensors are
bably confined to an area smaller than 1 mm 2 (the size of our smallest pixels). We
ded two sentences in this regard to the MATERIALS AND METHODS section: “The
le shows that the smallest of our pixels […]”.
hors talk about this problem as a potential problem in CO2 incubators. They might
want to restrict it to incubators designed for CO2 atmospheres. We agree
mpletely with the Referee. Hence, we deleted several instances of “CO2” in our
nuscript: the one at the end of the abstract, two in the first paragraph and one
ards the end of the INTRODUCTION (“As stated above, we suggest that […]”), and
e in the final paragraph of the article (“In summary, […]”).
her changes: Besides responding to the referees, we included the Ethics statement,
d also re-located the “Competing interests”, and the “Funding” sections (also adding
he latter one more funding source: “VEGA Grant Agency (2/0089/18) of the Slovak
public”). Several minor typos were corrected. Also, we now included the Dryad
ation of all of our raw data as instructed by Dryad administrators, here is the
porary link for the editor and the reviewers:
p://datadryad.org/review?doi=doi:10.5061/dryad.5k6gb
hope our article is now ready for acceptance.
cerely,
eng. Leonardo Makinistian, PhD in Physics
partment of Radiobiology, Cancer Research Institute, Biomedical Center, Slovak
ademy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia.
partment of Physics and Instituto de Física Aplicada (INFAP), Universidad Nacional
San Luis, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Ejército de
Andes 950, 5700 San Luis, Argentina.
Society Open
