What's the catch? Validity of whaling data for Japanese
catches of sperm whales in the North Pacific
Yulia V. Ivashchenko and Phillip J. Clapham
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150177.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150177
Review timeline
Original submission: 29 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 June 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150177.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Michael Double)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Comments
This paper presents Japan’s reported catch statistics in light of the newly available ‘true’ catch
information from Soviet fleets often operating in the same areas at the same time. This contrast
highlights the unreliable length data reported by Japan to the IWC and hence the likely high
proportion of infractions within the total catch.
I have two main comments that should be addressed by the authors:
1) The authors state ‘to date there has been no investigation of the reliability of catch
statistics for Japanese pelagic whaling operations’ (line 16). This overstates the novelty of their
analysis somewhat as previously both coastal and pelagic catch data have been examined by the
IWC and indeed specifically sperm whale length data from the North Pacific (Cooke at al. 1983).
However given the opacity and availability of the aged grey literature of the IWC the authors
should not be criticised for this omission. That said the analyses by Cooke and colleagues are
pertinent, should be referenced and the statement above qualified.
2) The paper should also state clearly that the practice of ‘whale stretching’ was by no
means limited to Japan or the USSR. Indeed Cooke et al. (1983) states that stretching was a
‘common phenomenon in whaling operations’ and cites IWC reports from 1964 and 1965.
Other more minor comments
1) The ‘legal-sized females’ (LSF; >11.6m) category is awkward given animals between 9.2
and 11.6m became legal after 1972. Thus the information presented in Table 2 can easily be
misinterpreted because the LSF column does not in fact report the proportion of reported ‘legal-
sized female’ whales (i.e. females >9.2m after 1972). I suggest you change the category to ‘large-
sized females’ to sidestep the difficulty of reporting legality consistently.
2) Bring the compelling catch percentages as reported on lines 104 and 106 through to the
abstract.
3) Line 54. The following statement is a little confusing ‘the Soviets...misreported illegal-
sized females as larger males’. Why would they report small females as larger males? Perhaps it
would be clearer to write ‘the Soviets falsified the length and sometimes also the sex; ...’. The
motivation to falsify sex data is not explained well - see comment 8 below.
4) Line 65. “Japanese pelagic catch numbers are correct”. Perhaps context is important here,
were the Japanese scientists clearly stating all catch data are correct or simply the number of
whales caught?
5) Line 94. Here it states the number of catchers for all Soviet fleets was 14 but in Line 175 it
states ‘some [Soviet] operations deployed more than 20 catcher boats per fleet’.
6) Line 95. I think CWD should be CD.
7) Line 194. Typo indicates/suggests.
8) Line 194. Here the authors suggest the evidence provides clear evidence for the
falsification of both sex and length data, however, the evidence for manipulation of sex receives
less attention. The authors could highlight the disparity in the sex ratios between the Soviet (40-
50% M) and Japanese catches (70-80% M) and that the ratios within countries are broadly
consistent across all years. More generally, however, the motivation to manipulate sex by both
the USSR and Japan should be explained more clearly if known.
Cooke, J. G., de la Mare, W. K. and Beddington, J. R. 1983. Some aspects of the reliability of the
length data for the North-West Pacific stock of sperm whales. Rep. int. Whaling Commission
33:265-268.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Andrew Brierley)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, but I would like to see the Soviet data deposited in the IWC database (this is not a condition
for m/s acceptance!)
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a provocative manuscript, but worthy of publication. See comments in attached. docx
(Appendix A). Re my tick of 'yes' re 'statistical analyses', I do not so much have a 'concern' as a
wish for the analysis to be extended (KS tests) and for histograms of length/freq to be presented.
I imagine this will be a straightforward task for the authors, and believe that it will improve the
m/s.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150177)
29-May-2015
Dear Dr Clapham,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("What’s the catch? Validity of whaling data for
Japanese catches of sperm whales in the North Pacific.") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
We feel that the most pressing concern raised by either reviewer is is regarding the validity of the
Russian catch data. I understand that you have already agreed to provide a translation of this,
translated by the first author as supplementary material, thank you. However given the
importance of these data we ask that you provide an independently certified translation of the
Russian data from a recognised translation service and upload this, along with the original data,
as supplementary material. This is in line with the journal's open data policy. Please also consider
submitting the data to the IWC database as suggested by the reviewer.
Please also clarify in your revised manuscript how you came about the declassified Russian catch
data.
4
As this is a controversial area it is particularly important that you carefully proofread your article
to ensure that none of your results are overstated or sensationalised.
The reviewers also have several other concerns which we invite you to address in your revision.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 21-Jun-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
5
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150177)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
This is a provocative manuscript that suggests a systematic miss-reporting of sperm-
whale size by Japanese whalers. The case made is that sizes reported by Japan are
larger that sizes measured by Russia in the same area/time, and that since Russian
data are known to be reliable then the Japanese data must be false. The argument
depends absolutely on the validity of Russian data, yet it is well known that the
Russian whaling activity was illegal and hence went unreported at the time. The
authors claim that catch data (including length) were recorded by the Russian fleet,
yet kept secret until declassification, and that those data are ‘of known reliability’.
The authors of the present work make up 2/3rds of the authors of the study cited [7]
affirming the validity of Russian previously-secret data.
The present manuscript considers data from 1968/69 and 1973/74. The IWC
introduced a mandatory observer scheme in 1972, so it would perhaps to be expected
that the potential for miss-reporting / falsification would be less in the latter period.
In 1988/69 the Japanese catch apparently contained a proportion of legally-sized
whales that was highly-significantly greater (c. 15 times greater) than the proportion
in the Russian catch. It appears as though individual whale lengths are known, and I
suggest histograms of lengths are given for Japanese and Russian catches, and that
Kolomogorov-Smirnov tests be performed to examine differences in length
distributions rather than just X2 tests on proportions. This KS approach might be
particularly instructive for the August 1969 period (described from line122 onwards)
and might strengthen the authors’ case (notwithstanding the issue of Russian data
validity outlined in my para 1).
The differences in numbers of legal/illegal length whales caught in 1973/74 by
Japanese/Russian whalers was reduced (from 15 to 3.5 times), but Japan still
apparently caught more large whales. Presentation of length-frequency histograms /
KS tests would be helpful for these data too.
In the Discussion (line 159) there is consideration of Southern Hemisphere whaling
activity by Japan and Russia. The authors make the statement that “Although
comparisons between oceans are not strictly appropriate” – and I agree. There is no
need to make this point as part of a para in Pacific whaling, but I would be supportive
of its inclusion as a self-contained para because it provides some evidence of
widespread (geographically) practice.
Line 194 – cut either ‘suggests’ or ‘indicates’
Re data accessibility, are there any efforts afoot to put the ‘reliable’ Soviet data in to
the IWC data base?
REVIEW END
Andrew Brierley, May 2015
pendix B
IVASHCHENKO & CLAPHAM
RESPONSES TO EDITOR’S AND REFEREES’ COMMENTS
TOR COMMENTS
ability of the Soviet data: please see response number 1 to Referee 1, below.
nslation: We have provided a certified translation of the key Soviet data for this paper.
uisition of records: The formerly secret reports which form the basis of our analyses and which were declassified
r the break-up of the USSR were found and copied in the State Archive of the Primorskiy Region in Vladivostok,
sia. We have now noted this in the revised text. They remain publically available in that archive, and copies of key
uments are also available from the authors.
this is a controversial area it is particularly important that you carefully proofread your article to ensure that none
your results are overstated or sensationalised.
erstood, but we do not overstate or sensationalize anything. The data clearly indicate extensive and systematic
fication of catch data - well beyond the occasional “stretching” problem mentioned by Referee 2 - which is
ething that a) has already been demonstrated for Japanese coastal whaling operations, and b) was predicted by
er Soviet scientists with whom we worked on the illegal Soviet data. We would note that the material in this paper
presented to the IWC’s Scientific Committee at its annual meeting last month, and despite weak objections from
Government of Japan, was generally accepted as correct; the discussion then focused not on whether the
eporting was real, but on how to deal with the resulting falsified Japanese data in the IWC’s catch database.
dentally, both referees were present during these discussions.
FEREE COMMENTS
comments were very helpful in improving the manuscript; responses and relevant changes are described below.
eree 1: Andy Brierley
eliability of Soviet records. We recognize that this is critical to the analysis presented in this paper. There is no
bt about the reliability of the Soviet data used here, but in support of this we have added a footnote to the Methods
ion noting that the North Pacific data are identical in nature to the more extensive data from Soviet illegal whaling
e Southern Hemisphere, which were formally accepted by the IWC’s Scientific Committee in 1997. Furthermore,
e Scientific Committee meeting that just took place (after we had submitted the manuscript), the Committee
owledged the veracity of the North Pacific “true” data collected by us, and officially recommended “that the revised
for all species be entered into the IWC catch database as a matter of priority and that the false data originally
mitted to BIWS for these expeditions be removed.” This has been noted in the text, with the relevant citation.
se of a K-S test on the length frequency data: done (although we have also retained the original Chi-square test,
e it tests something different).
isplay length frequency data using histograms: done (new Figure 2).
se of the Southern Hemisphere data for comparison. The referee makes a good point about the lack of a need to
pare the Japanese catch data with Soviet data from the Southern Hemisphere, and suggests that this information be
ned in its own paragraph as evidence of the geographically widespread nature of misreporting. We agree with the
er, but don’t think it’s worth keeping the comparison generally, because it says nothing about the extent of
1
fication by Japan outside the North Pacific (only that by the Soviets, which is already well known). Accordingly,
have removed this text completely.
ine 194: remove either “suggests” or “indicates”. Done (inevitably, we’d caught this typo right after we’d hit
bmit” on the original manuscript!)
fforts to put the Soviet data into the IWC database: yes, this will be done now that the IWC has officially accepted
rue data as the official record, and we have included this in the revision (see note above).
eree 2: Mike Double
or comments
revious questioning of the Japanese data. This is a reasonable comment, though we did include reference to the
ious suggestion of the unreliability of the Japanese data (however, we cited the wrong reference - now fixed). We
e added text to better highlight the 1983 Cooke et al. paper, and brought it forward into the Introduction.
hale stretching was common: this is certainly true, and well known; but it is important to distinguish between the
fied increase in length for occasional individual catches that were inadvertently below the minimum size limit for
pecies concerned (i.e. “Whoops, we got a small one - let’s add a couple of feet to the length to avoid an infraction”)
what the USSR and Japan were doing, which was to actively and knowingly kill many whales below the limit, in
stematic fashion and on a large scale. We have added text to Discussion in this regard.
or comments
se of “Legal-sized females” - change to “large-sized females”. We recognize that the change in minimum length
972 makes this potentially confusing, but we don’t believe that changing the term is helpful because the loss of the
d “legal” would remove a key component of this term. The point is the legality of the length, not that the whales
cerned were “large”; in addition, we use the term “large females” to refer to particularly sizeable animals, and
ging the LSF term as the referee suggests would further confuse this. Instead, we have added to the relevant
note, which now reads as follows:
The minimum length was reduced by IWC to 9.2 m in 1972; thus, smaller females were legal to catch
after this date. However, because we wanted to investigate potentially illegal catches prior to
implementation of the IOS, our analysis focused on the occurrence of 11.6+ m females before and
after the introduction of inspection. Consequently, the term “legal-sized females” here refers to the
legal minimum length prior to 1972.
believe that this adequately clarifies the term, the change in minimum length, and the reason we continued to use
m in the post-IOS analyses.
ring forward to the Abstract percentage figures from lines 104-106: done.
hy was size changed etc? We have clarified why the Soviets often reported undersized females as larger males,
ollows:
In official reports to the IWC, the Soviets falsified female lengths, or misreported illegal-sized
females as larger males in order to make the catch figures consistent with reported oil production
(because adult male sperm whales are much larger than females, and thus yielded more oil, it was
more believable to report as a male an undersized whale whose length had been intentionally
increased).
2
apanese pelagic catch numbers are correct” - does this mean total catches, or all catch data? We assume this refers
to the catch numbers, not the associated length data (although that might be implied). The report concerned is brief
does not give further detail.
umber of Soviet catchers: confusion between 14 and 20. Good point, and we have clarified that the latter did not
r in the North Pacific by adding the word “Antarctic”: “...and in some Antarctic operations deployed more than 20
her boats per fleet.”
WD should read CD: good catch, thanks.
ypo (indicates/suggests): corrected.
alsification of sex data: thinking about this, we realize that our statement that the results indicate “systematic
fication of associated sex and length data” is, for sex, not well supported. It is clear lengths were falsified, but we
y can’t say from these data that sex was (indeed, the occurrence in the catch statistics of so many improbably large
ales might well suggest that only length was changed, not sex). Consequently, we have removed the reference to
in the statement. That the Soviets changed the sex of animals is well known, and the motive for this is explained
er (see response to minor comment 3 above).
3
Society Open
