Marine soundscape shaped by fishing activity
Laura Coquereau, Julie Lossent, Jacques Grall and Laurent Chauvaud
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160606.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160606
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 August 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 10 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 4 December 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 5 December 2016
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160606.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Jason Hall-Spencer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No. The Supplementary Information does not include the faunal data, which would be very
useful for those that want to delve into the detail of this paper. It would also be nice (but not
essential) to have two illustrative examples of sound files - one from the noisy site and the other
from the quiet site.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper is concise and well written as well as being innovative, and I recomend that it is
published with only minor edits. This is the first study that I know of to show the effects of
damaging fishing practices on marine soundscapes. A drawback is that only two sites were
compared, which I suppose could differ in their soundscapes for reasons other than fishing (e.g.
natural predation). Although the authors make a persuasive case that fishing is to blame, with
results that are consistent across seasons, it would be good to know how they ruled out other
possibilities. This manuscript presents a very impressive time series data set (Fig. 2) on two
maerl beds, one clearly showing a large decrease in faunal diversity after the onset of scallop
dredging. It would be good to share these data in the supplementary information.
The paper would be strengthened by more evidence of the different fishing history of the two
sites, if it can be sourced. What evidence is there of fishing at the impacted site (is there VMS
data, or sightings data, or what?) and the absence of this fishing at the 'noisier' site. I ts not clear
from the methods how the maerl cover and thickness estimates (Table 1) were obtained.
There are small edits to be made to improve the English that I expect will be picked up by the
typesetters. I would replace 'drastic' with 'major' in the Abstract.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160606)
14-Sep-2016
Dear Mrs Coquereau,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Marine soundscape shaped by fishing activity") have now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 07-Oct-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160606
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached
5
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is concise and well written as well as being innovative, and I recomend that it is
published with only minor edits. This is the first study that I know of to show the effects of
damaging fishing practices on marine soundscapes. A drawback is that only two sites were
compared, which I suppose could differ in their soundscapes for reasons other than fishing (e.g.
natural predation). Although the authors make a persuasive case that fishing is to blame, with
results that are consistent across seasons, it would be good to know how they ruled out other
possibilities. This manuscript presents a very impressive time series data set (Fig. 2) on two
maerl beds, one clearly showing a large decrease in faunal diversity after the onset of scallop
dredging. It would be good to share these data in the supplementary information.
The paper would be strengthened by more evidence of the different fishing history of the two
sites, if it can be sourced. What evidence is there of fishing at the impacted site (is there VMS
data, or sightings data, or what?) and the absence of this fishing at the 'noisier' site. I ts not clear
from the methods how the maerl cover and thickness estimates (Table 1) were obtained.
There are small edits to be made to improve the English that I expect will be picked up by the
typesetters. I would replace 'drastic' with 'major' in the Abstract.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160606)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160606.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not clear that the data is available via a repository or the likes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
6
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I still think there needs to be a spectrogram or two. They have small sound files so the
computation time to do these is very minimal.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160606.R1)
21-Nov-2016
Dear Mrs Coquereau:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160606.R1
entitled "Marine soundscape shaped by fishing activity" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160606.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
7
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 30-Nov-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
8
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I still think there needs to be a spectrogram or two. They have small sound files so the
computation time to do these is very minimal.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160606.R1)
Dear Mrs Power,
Thank you for your letter dated of the 21th of November 2016. We are very grateful for your
decision on our manuscript submitted to Royal Society Open Science.
Following the Reviewer’s suggestion, we have added in supplementary two spectrograms, one
for the unfished maerl bed and one for the fished maerl bed.
We hope that the new version of our manuscript is up to the standards of Royal Society Open
Science.
9
Thank you very much; we look forward to hearing from you soon.
Sincerely yours,
Laura Coquereau, on behalf of the other authors
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160606.R2)
05-Dec-2016
Dear Mrs Coquereau,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Marine soundscape shaped by fishing
activity" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Lossent; J. Grall; and L. Chauvaud.
Using soundscapes to monitor ecosystem health is an interesting concept and
this field is definitely behind the “8 ball” compared to the advances being made
in the terrestrial environment. The paper in question is certainly an interesting
concept in attempting to use soundscapes to measure the effects of fishing on a
particular ecosystem. However, with the advances in hydrophone technology
bioacousticians are far beyond conducting spot measurements, as this study has
done, compared to 5-10 years ago where this was acceptable. In saying that I
think this study has some merit but needs to undergo significant revisions. If
the authors want to continue bioacoustic / soundscape research I suggest they
invest in some autonomous hydrophones.
I have major concerns with the methods mainly due to the lack of information
provided by the authors. Simple information like distance between recording
sites, whether the samples were taken simultaneously or only one recording
system was used are not provided. If one recording system was used were all
the samples taken on one day. If not, it is difficult to compare between sites
and why was multiple days not done during the two seasons? Why were the two
seasons in different years? Why not take summer and winter samples??
The use of ‘noise verse sound” is also concerning and is something that has been
discussed in depth in the literature. What one animal may perceive as noise
(i.e. annoying) might be valuable information to another. Hence, the authors
are better off using the word sound as there are less connotations to it. Sound
analysis details are lacking. The authors say the sound recordings were split
into 10s bins, which is small considering they had 10 mins of data. Then what
was done with the 10s bins to get the results they obtained??
Considering this is a soundscape paper why are there no spectra or
spectrograms presented??? Simple dBrms measurements do not accurately
describe the soundscape.
Were there recordings from a site outside of the Maerl beds to provide a better
context for what Maerl beds sound like? Or at least reference a published paper
where this data can be seen.
Where did figure 1 come from? There is no mention in the methods that data
was collected over a 20 year period to generate this plot.
Minor Suggestions
Abstract: last sentence – this sentence is extrapolating to far past what the
results suggest. I would say the results hold for Maerl beds but it is too far to
say that they hold for all marine ecosystems.
Page 2 line 48: change spatial orientations to spatial distributions
Page 3 line 52: sentence starting however…. This sentence contradicts what the
authors have said in the sentence before. Is this paper supposed to describe the
already known???
Page 3 line 65: past 20 years is not from 1992-2012. Past 20 years means
2016-1996
Page 6 line 132: this sentence is ambiguous. The authors need to elaborate on
this and relate the cited studies to their work much better
Page 7 line 159: this entire paragraph is stretching past what their results
actually mean and say. I suggest deleting this and end the paper some way
else.
Figure 2: No scale on the colour bars.
Responses to Reviewers
Reviewer’s comments in italic
Authors’ responses in regular
Reviewer # 1:
General comment:
COMMENT: Using soundscapes to monitor ecosystem health is an interesting concept and
his field is definitely behind the “8 ball” compared to the advances being made in the
errestrial environment. The paper in question is certainly an interesting concept in
attempting to use soundscapes to measure the effects of fishing on a particular ecosystem.
However, with the advances in hydrophone technology bioacousticians are far beyond
conducting spot measurements, as this study has done, compared to 5-10 years ago where this
was acceptable. In saying that I think this study has some merit but needs to undergo
significant revisions. If the authors want to continue bioacoustic / soundscape research I
suggest they invest in some autonomous hydrophones.
REPLY: Indeed, we used spot-measurement of 10 min. Different types of marine soundscape
studies are commonly conducted such as long term series (e.g. Kinda et al. 2013, Ricci et al.
2016) or short recording studies (e.g. Radford et al. 2008, Kennedy et al. 2010, Picciulin et al.
2013). Several marine studies have used soundscapes as indicators of ecosystem health by
aking 1 or 2 min recording sessions (e.g. Piercy et al. 2014, Harris et al. 2016).
Moreover, Piercy et al. (2014) mentioned that “Meaningful heterogeneity in reef noise found
n this study supports the idea of using ‘snapshot’ sound recordings for rapid and cost-
effective reef quality assessment and monitoring (Simpson 2008).” In accordance with this
statement, these methods and associated results we choose to conduct short recordings in our
study in order to explore for the first time whether destructive impacts of fishing could be
evaluated via soundscape. In the revised version of the manuscript, we have specified this
nformation as follows: “We acquired two 10-min recordings (“snapshot” sound recordings as
suggested in [6]),…” Lines 83-84 in the revised version of the manuscript
We deeply agree with reviewer 1 that it would be interesting to complete these first results by
conducting longer recordings, particularly by recording continuously for several days.
COMMENT: I have major concerns with the methods mainly due to the lack of information
provided by the authors. Simple information like distance between recording sites, whether
he samples were taken simultaneously or only one recording system was used are not
provided. If one recording system was used were all the samples taken on one day. If not, it is
difficult to compare between sites and why was multiple days not done during the two
samples??
REPLY: The two maerl beds are situated 1.8 km apart. The 5 sampling sites within each
maerl bed are situated from 100 to 150 m apart from each other. One single recording system
was available, thus the recordings were not taken simultaneously. However, recordings were
acquired at the 10 sampling sites (5 within each maerl bed) on the same day. Three sampling
days (considered here as pseudo replicates) were conducted in each season to capture the
natural seasonal variability of the benthic community structure and soundscape.
The circumstances of the recording campaign (two seasons in different years) are due to
ogistic issues of the PhD students (JL & LCoquereau) working on this experimentation.
Spring corresponds to the season after fishing period (in winter), and autumn is previous to
he beginning of the fishing season. Autumn also corresponds to the maximum of abundance
and biomass in these maerl beds (see below Grall 2002). Thus, to potentially observe
differences between soundscapes we first selected these two seasons. In further experiments,
t would be interesting to record the maerl beds in winter and summer to capture the acoustic
variability over the four seasons of a full year.
Temporal evolution of biomass and abundance per 0.1m² sample in two maerl beds in the Bay of Brest (Data
from Grall 2002)
n the revised version of the manuscript, we have mentioned the above information as
ollows:
“The two beds are situated 1.8 km apart.” Line 69
“Recordings were acquired at 5 sampling sites within each maerl bed (i.e. total of 10
ecordings). These 10 recordings were conducted on the same day. Three sampling days
considered here as pseudo replicates) were conducted in each season to capture the natural
seasonal variability of the benthic community structure and soundscape.” Lines 86-89
“We conducted acoustic recordings in autumn 2014 (season with the maximum of biomass
and abundance, Grall 2002) and spring 2015 (season following fishing activity in the winter)
n these two maerl beds.” Lines 76-78
been discussed in depth in the literature. What one animal may perceive as noise (i.e.
annoying) might be valuable information to another. Hence, the authors are better off using
he word sound as there are less connotations to it.
REPLY: We agree with the comment. In the manuscript we did not use noise but sound,
except for the term ‘ambient noise level’ (ANL) which is a common term use in marine
soundscape study (e.g. Dahl et al. 2007, Radford et al. 2008, Merchant et al. 2013, Freeman et
al. 2014).
COMMENT: Sound analysis details are lacking. The authors say the sound recordings were
split into 10s bins, which is small considering they had 10 mins of data. Then what was done
with the 10s bins to get the results they obtained??
REPLY: The sentence “Recordings were divided into 10-s bins” has been placed later in the
method section to better understand the split into 10 s bins. Indeed, this split was used only
or the ANL calculation following the method developed in Kinda et al. (2013). Ten second
duration allowed us to limit the volume of calculations and it was sufficient to incorporate
natural variability of benthic pulses that are about 1 ms each. Then 10 s bins belonging to a 10
min recording were compiled to obtain an ANL value.
We have modified details in sound analysis as follows: “Recordings were divided into 10-s
bins for which ANL was calculated according to the method described by [13]. Then these
10-s bins belonging to a 10 min recording were compiled to obtain an ANL value. Regardless
of this analysis, we detected high-energy benthic pulses (the 95th percentile). For each one of
hem we computed the peak frequency (fp, in Hz) and the corresponding sound pressure level
SPL, in dB re 1 µPa). Then, we plotted fp as a function of SPL.” Lines 97-103
COMMENT: Considering this is a soundscape paper why are there no spectra or
spectrograms presented??? Simple dBrms measurements do not accurately describe the
soundscape.
REPLY: We have computed ANL spectra of the two maerl beds (presented below). We think
hat this figure does not provide much more information than ANL values and Figure 2
already presented in the manuscript. We agree that it can interest some readers, thus we add it
as a Figure in supplementary data and mentioned it in the revised manuscript. The [300 Hz-3
kHz] spectra follow Wenz’s model. In the frequency band [3 kHz-60 kHz] the biophony’s
bump appears.
COMMENT: Were there recordings from a site outside of the Maerl beds to provide a better
context for what Maerl beds sound like? Or at least reference a published paper where this
data can be seen.
REPLY: Learning more about soundscape variability between different types of habitats is
not the objective of our paper. Thus we do not provide any information on recordings from
non-maerl beds habitats. When considering additional acoustic studies that we have
conducted, we find that maerl bed soundscape is closer to rocky and coral habitats soundscape
han to sandy or muddy habitats soundscape, especially because of the presence of habitat
specific soniferous species (snapping shrimps, sea urchins, other crustaceans, etc.) and also
because of the high biodiversity associated to the habitat which leads to a complex
soundscape. For example, Lossent et al. (2016, “Cartographie de la biophonie des
écosystèmes côtiers”) compares soundscapes of several benthic habitats in the Mediterranean
sea (rock, sea grass, sand and a coralligenous habitat).
COMMENT: Where did figure 1 come from? There is no mention in the methods that data
was collected over a 20 year period to generate this plot.
REPLY: Data in Figure 1 come from temporal series of macrofaunal species richness
conducted by the Marine Observatory at the Institut Universitaire Européen de la Mer. We
have added information to explain how these data were collected: “Data consisted in three
eplicates of 0.1 m² sediment samples collected in autumn using a 0.1m² Smith-McIntyre
grab. After sorting all animals were identified to the species level and numbered.” Lines 71-
73
Minor Suggestions
COMMENT: Abstract: last sentence – this sentence is extrapolating to far past what the
results suggest. I would say the results hold for Maerl beds but it is too far to say that they
hold for all marine ecosystems.
REPLY: We have changed the last sentence of the abstract as follows: “Our results supported
he idea that the soundscape can provide valuable information on maerl bed ecosystem health
elated to fishing activity.”
COMMENT: Page 2 line 48: change spatial orientations to spatial distributions
REPLY: The term we used referred to larval spatial orientation mentioned in a growing
number of studied (e.g. Montgomery et al. 2006, Stanley et al. 2012, Lillis et al. 2013).
COMMENT: Page 3 line 52: sentence starting however…. This sentence contradicts what the
authors have said in the sentence before. Is this paper supposed to describe the effects of
ishing on soundscapes, but in the sentence on line 51 says this is already known???
REPLY: The comment is pertinent, so we have modified the sentences as follows: “Demersal
ishing affects benthic communities [8] and could affect the soundscape, either directly, by
nfluencing the sound-producing species assemblages, or indirectly, through changes in
habitat structure. It remains to be assessed whether destructive fishing impacts can be
evaluated based on changes in the soundscape.” Lines 50-54 in the revised version of the
manuscript.
COMMENT: Page 3 line 65: past 20 years is not from 1992-2012. Past 20 years means 2016-
1996
REPLY: We have modified the sentence as follows: “Over 20 years (1992-2012), benthic
nvertebrates have been sampled from maerl habitats in the Bay of Brest, France.”
COMMENT: Page 6 line 132: this sentence is ambiguous. The authors need to elaborate on
his and relate the cited studies to their work much better
REPLY: To better relate the cited studies we have modified the sentence as follows: “Overall,
he changes we observed in acoustic features, i.e. higher-quality habitats are louder and richer
n acoustic events than degraded ones, were consistent with observations in other marine
habitats [3, 6]. Nevertheless, these comparative studies of habitat quality through soundscape
are prone to the confounding effects of variables such as habitat type, anthropogenic impact
and environmental parameters (e.g. tides).”
COMMENT: Page 7 line 159: this entire paragraph is stretching past what their results
actually mean and say. I suggest deleting this and end the paper some way else.
REPLY: We have changed the first statement by modifying « are generally applicable » by
« could be ». We would like to keep the idea that soundscape differences raised intriguing
questions about implications on larval orientation in such habitats that are known to have a
nursery function. Indeed, this topic expands (e.g. Tolimieri et al 2004, Montgomery et al.
2006, Stanley et al. 2009, 2012, Lillis et al. 2013, Rossi et al. 2016) and we believe our results
can be of interest to scientists studying ecological process of larval recruitment and larval
orientation through soundscapes.
COMMENT: Figure 2: No scale on the colour bars.
REPLY: We have added the information in the figure caption: “Colour bars correspond to
benthic pulse number”.
COMMENT: This paper is concise and well written as well as being innovative, and I
recomend that it is published with only minor edits. This is the first study that I know of to
show the effects of damaging fishing practices on marine soundscapes. A drawback is that
only two sites were compared, which I suppose could differ in their soundscapes for reasons
other than fishing (e.g. natural predation). Although the authors make a persuasive case that
ishing is to blame, with results that are consistent across seasons, it would be good to know
how they ruled out other possibilities.
REPLY: We claim that the two maerl beds differ in their soundscapes due to fishing activity
because benthic communities of the two beds were very similar in terms of species presence,
abundance and biomass before fishing began. An example is the cluster below with R1=fished
bed and R2 = unfished bed that are not different (Grall 2002). The 2004 year marks the end of
he benthic community similarities between the beds. To date, fishing activity is the only
pressure, among natural and anthropic pressures, known differ between these two beds.
Cloern et al. (2016) describes the drop in macrofaunal diversity in 2004 and specified benthic
community differences between beds in the Bay of Brest.
Cluster of maerl beds in the Bay of Brest based on site/species matrix (Grall 2002)
This manuscript presents a very impressive time series data set (Fig. 2) on two maerl beds,
one clearly showing a large decrease in faunal diversity after the onset of scallop dredging.
t would be good to share these data in the supplementary information.
REPLY: In supplementary, we have added a data set with the exact numbers of invertebrate
species richness over 20 years in the two maerl beds. Detailed species information can be
ound at http://www-iuem.univ-brest.fr/observatoire/observation-cotiere.
Fished Unifished
Year
bed bed
1992 97.0 99.3
1993 100.0 89.7
1994 103.0 94.7
1995 105.0 105.0
1996 115.0 111.3
1997 103.0 104.7
1998 109.0 111.3
1999 107.0 120.0
2000 101.3 109.3
2001 105.0 109.0
2002 110.7 104.0
2003 108.3 103.3
2004 103.7 100.0
2005 66.3 92.7
2006 63.0 94.3
2007 69.7 91.3
2008 63.0 108.7
2009 64.7 105.3
2010 66.7 101.0
2011 70.0 118.0
2012 62.7 94.7
COMMENT: The paper would be strengthened by more evidence of the different fishing
history of the two sites, if it can be sourced. What evidence is there of fishing at the impacted
site (is there VMS data, or sightings data, or what?) and the absence of this fishing at the
noisier' site.
REPLY: Fishing activity was first visually noticed by one of the author from 2004 on one of
he long term survey station. From 2012 fishing data were obtained from marine traffic
www. Marine-traffic.org), when all fishing vessels in the bay of Brest had to be equipped
with an AIS system. Spatial maps of dredging intensity in the Bay of Brest were then derived
rom the AIS data. All the trajectories recorded for each vessel and during the whole fishing
season were pooled. Here after is an example of a map showing the distribution of dredging
pressure from clam dredges from October 2012 to January 2015. In the manuscript, we do not
mention more evidence of the different fishing history of the two sites since these data are not
disclosed. However as shown on the map, one of our study site is heavily fished while the
other is safe from fishing (at least between 2012 and 2015).
Distribution of dredging pressure from clam dredges in the south basin of the Bay of Brest as an example from
October 2012 to January 2015. Each square of the grid is 50 m x 50 m. Pressure is given both in terms of the
percent of a square’s area covered by dredges and the number of 50 m dredges crossing the square. The red
circle includes the fishing recordings sites and the green circle includes the non-fishing recordings sites (Data
from the M Sc internship of Michael Pantalos, 2015)
COMMENT: Its not clear from the methods how the maerl cover and thickness estimates
Table 1) were obtained.
REPLY: We have clarified the method section by explaining how the maerl cover and
hickness were estimated as follows: “Maerl thickness and cover were estimated based on
hree replicates at each acoustic recording site with, respectively for thickness and cover, 5.4
cm diameter cores and pictures with a 50 cm²-quadrat placed on the sediment, photographed
and then further visually estimated in the laboratory.” Lines 112-115 in the revised version of
he manuscript
COMMENT: There are small edits to be made to improve the English that I expect will be
picked up by the typesetters. I would replace 'drastic' with 'major' in the Abstract.
REPLY: We have carefully checked the manuscript and figure captions for mistakes. We have
also changed 'drastic' by 'major' in the Abstract.
Society Open
