Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed dispersal
Vanya G. Rohwer, Anton Pauw and Paul R. Martin
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160538.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160538
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 July 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 3 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 23 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 24 November 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160538.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Judith Canner)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is available in the ESM in xlxs format. The Supplementary Material is clear except where
indicated in the review.
The paper references the ESM within the paper.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Paulo Camargo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The supplementary material is adequate, it is well written and has clarity. It has details of the
methods, the raw data and one video.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Rohwer et al. presents the results of an interesting study on the interactions
between Eriocephalus plants and birds in South Africa. The study suggests that prinias provide
limited dispersal benefits to Eriocephalus plants, but that they benefit from constructing their
nests with Eriocephalus material.
The manuscript is well written e it is rich in details. The introduction is clear and well founded.
The methods and analyses seem appropriate (though I have doubts on some points). The
interpretations are supported by the data.
I have no major issues but have a number of comments below that should be carefully considered
by the authors to increase the readability of the ms by Royal Society Open Science audience.
1) Page 1, lines 42-43: this is a bit confusing - It is difficult to understand this sentence without
reading the whole manuscript.
2) Page 2, lines 33-35: How Eriocephalus seed material in nest reduces nest ectoparasitism or
predation? Please clarify.
3) Page 4, lines 12-13: What is the size of the territory of Karoo prinias? Include this information
here because you will use later on in the text (Page 8, lines 43-48).
3
4) Page 5, lines 4-7: The sentence is a bit confusing.
5) Page 6, lines 6-11: Do you removed the fluff or the seed head? This information is very
important since as mentioned by you in the text and as seen in the video (supplementary
material), in the most times Karoo prinias only remove the fluff.
6) Page 6, lines 30-39: I do not understand this experiment at all. You used the coordinates of GPS
to infer the distances of nests to the closest Eriocephalus plant, right? It seems to me that you did
two measures.
7) Page 6, lines 40-45: It is not clear the first method of estimate of the time spent gathering
Eriocephalus material.
8) Page 8, lines 33-39: Due to lack of clarity in the methods (comment 6), I am still in doubt about
these two distances of 209 and 344 m.
9) Page 11, lines 37-38: You could have tested this by comparing the germination rate of seeds in
each phenophase fluff.
10) Page 14, lines 3-4: In reference Bronstein et al. (2006), the journal name should be abbreviated.
11) Page 14, lines 16-17: In reference Frederickson (2013), the journal name should be abbreviated.
12) Page 14, lines 46-47: In reference Yu and Pierce (1998), the journal name is not with the
standard abbreviation: Proc R Soc B.
13) Page 16, lines 29-30: The year of publication of the reference Martin and Roper is wrong. The
year of publication correct is 1988.
14) Page 17, lines 30-32: Author surnames of the reference Jalink et al. (1999) is wrong. Please
check
15) Page 17, lines 52-53: In reference Stevens and Merilaita (2009), the journal name is not with the
standard abbreviation: Phil Trans R Soc B.
16) Page 17, lines 55-57: In title of paper of the Clucas et al. (2008) is "exploit" and not "expoit".
17) Include the Authors' Contributions section
18) The figures are interesting and self-explanatory. However, I believe that not all are necessary.
Figures 1 and 2 provide information on the methods and can be placed in the Electronic
supplementary material without prejudice to for the understanding of the study. Similarly,
Figures 7 and 8 and Table 1 refer to secondary results and therefore can also be placed in the
electronic supplementary material. This reduces the length of the paper and leaves the
manuscript more focused on the three proposed objectives.
I hope you find the comments helpful.
Sincerely,
Paulo H. A. Camargo
Departamento de Ecologia
Universidade Estadual Paulista
Rio Claro, São Paulo, Brazil.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160538)
21-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Rohwer,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed dispersal") have now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Oct-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
5
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160538
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See attached.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The manuscript by Rohwer et al. presents the results of an interesting study on the interactions
between Eriocephalus plants and birds in South Africa. The study suggests that prinias provide
6
limited dispersal benefits to Eriocephalus plants, but that they benefit from constructing their
nests with Eriocephalus material.
The manuscript is well written e it is rich in details. The introduction is clear and well founded.
The methods and analyses seem appropriate (though I have doubts on some points). The
interpretations are supported by the data.
I have no major issues but have a number of comments below that should be carefully considered
by the authors to increase the readability of the ms by Royal Society Open Science audience.
1) Page 1, lines 42-43: this is a bit confusing - It is difficult to understand this sentence without
reading the whole manuscript.
2) Page 2, lines 33-35: How Eriocephalus seed material in nest reduces nest ectoparasitism or
predation? Please clarify.
3) Page 4, lines 12-13: What is the size of the territory of Karoo prinias? Include this information
here because you will use later on in the text (Page 8, lines 43-48).
4) Page 5, lines 4-7: The sentence is a bit confusing.
5) Page 6, lines 6-11: Do you removed the fluff or the seed head? This information is very
important since as mentioned by you in the text and as seen in the video (supplementary
material), in the most times Karoo prinias only remove the fluff.
6) Page 6, lines 30-39: I do not understand this experiment at all. You used the coordinates of GPS
to infer the distances of nests to the closest Eriocephalus plant, right? It seems to me that you did
two measures.
7) Page 6, lines 40-45: It is not clear the first method of estimate of the time spent gathering
Eriocephalus material.
8) Page 8, lines 33-39: Due to lack of clarity in the methods (comment 6), I am still in doubt about
these two distances of 209 and 344 m.
9) Page 11, lines 37-38: You could have tested this by comparing the germination rate of seeds in
each phenophase fluff.
10) Page 14, lines 3-4: In reference Bronstein et al. (2006), the journal name should be abbreviated.
11) Page 14, lines 16-17: In reference Frederickson (2013), the journal name should be abbreviated.
12) Page 14, lines 46-47: In reference Yu and Pierce (1998), the journal name is not with the
standard abbreviation: Proc R Soc B.
13) Page 16, lines 29-30: The year of publication of the reference Martin and Roper is wrong. The
year of publication correct is 1988.
14) Page 17, lines 30-32: Author surnames of the reference Jalink et al. (1999) is wrong. Please
check
15) Page 17, lines 52-53: In reference Stevens and Merilaita (2009), the journal name is not with the
standard abbreviation: Phil Trans R Soc B.
16) Page 17, lines 55-57: In title of paper of the Clucas et al. (2008) is "exploit" and not "expoit".
7
17) Include the Authors' Contributions section
18) The figures are interesting and self-explanatory. However, I believe that not all are necessary.
Figures 1 and 2 provide information on the methods and can be placed in the Electronic
supplementary material without prejudice to for the understanding of the study. Similarly,
Figures 7 and 8 and Table 1 refer to secondary results and therefore can also be placed in the
electronic supplementary material. This reduces the length of the paper and leaves the
manuscript more focused on the three proposed objectives.
I hope you find the comments helpful.
Sincerely,
Paulo H. A. Camargo
Departamento de Ecologia
Universidade Estadual Paulista
Rio Claro, São Paulo, Brazil.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160538)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160538.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Judith Canner)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
8
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
I appreciate the attention to address each of the concerns. I would add a few additional
suggestions which do not necessarily detract from the paper as a whole.
1. In the ESM it would be nice to still offer a verbal explanation of the effect sizes.
2. Figure 4 - the overlaid data points are not necessary on the top graphic. Using the points on B
is appreciated and clear now.
3. I am not convinced that transformation of explanatory variables was completely necessary as
the assumption of the models are that the residuals are normal not the explanatory variables if
my understanding of hurdle models is correct. But I also know that transformation of variables is
common to help meet assumptions so I will trust the authors made the correct decision to verify
model assumptions for their models in lieu of running analysis myself. I encourage the authors
to make their statistical analysis coding available in the ESM to promote reproducible statistical
research.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160538.R1)
23-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Rohwer:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160538.R1
entitled "Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed dispersal" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160538.R1
9
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Dec-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
10
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
I appreciate the attention to address each of the concerns. I would add a few additional
suggestions which do not necessarily detract from the paper as a whole.
1. In the ESM it would be nice to still offer a verbal explanation of the effect sizes.
2. Figure 4 - the overlaid data points are not necessary on the top graphic. Using the points on B
is appreciated and clear now.
3. I am not convinced that transformation of explanatory variables was completely necessary as
the assumption of the models are that the residuals are normal not the explanatory variables if
my understanding of hurdle models is correct. But I also know that transformation of variables is
common to help meet assumptions so I will trust the authors made the correct decision to verify
model assumptions for their models in lieu of running analysis myself. I encourage the authors
to make their statistical analysis coding available in the ESM to promote reproducible statistical
research.
11
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160538.R1)
23 November 2016
Dear Drs. Alice Power and Kevin Padian,
We are excited that our manuscript RSOS-160538.R1 entitled "Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed
dispersal" has been accepted for publication at Royal Society Open Science.
In response to the final suggestions by Reviewer 1, we have: (i) provided a verbal explanation of
effect size measures in the ESM (see lines 133-136 in ESM), (ii) deleted points in Figure 4A, and
(iii) uploaded all raw data used in our analyses onto Dryad. Overall, we thought the reviews we
obtained from Royal Society Open Science were fair and thoughtful, and improved the quality of
the manuscript.
We have added all necessary sections (i.e. Ethics, Data accessibility, Authors’ contributions,
Competing interest, Funding, Acknowledgments) and Dryad’s DOI to end of the manuscript.
Please let us know if you need other information prior to publishing this manuscript.
Best wishes,
Vanya Rohwer, Anton Pauw, Paul Martin
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160538.R2)
24-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Rohwer,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed
dispersal" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
12
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
paper “Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed dispersal” presents a thorough evaluation of the natural
ory of a previously undocumented potential mutualism between the bird species Karoo prinia (Prinia
sculosa) and the plan species Eriocephalus racemosus. The authors document their observations
ut the behavior or prinia towards the seed heads and fluff of Eriocephalus including the length and
nsity of prinia interacting with Eriocephalus fluff, the amount of fluff and seeds in their nests, as well
ther aspects of the natural history of both species that are important to understanding if the
raction is truly mutualistic or not.
referee found the paper thorough, well written, and interesting to the understanding of this
ticular mutualism and understands that the paper provides a first step to a complete understanding
his species interaction.
ny of the suggestions offered are either aesthetic, wording, or detail related and should be easily
luated by the authors to either incorporate or ignore as they see fit. The reviewer does have four
n concerns about the paper:
1. The construction of the statistical models includes many transformed variables. The explanation
of the choice of these transformations is non-existent in the paper or ESM and is important to
understand the model construction and evaluation.
2. Only statistical significance is focused on in the models and throughout the paper without any
evaluation of effect size for various tests/models. Effect size is vital to assess influence/impact
in a relationship. A statistically significant relationship or difference is not always a meaningful
relationship or difference. In addition, the transformation of the variables in the model will
make it challenging for a less statistically minded individual to correctly interpret the parameter
values provided in the ESM.
3. The choice of categorizations for the phenology excluded seed maturity from fluffiness
categories so they were not measured together. It seems that given the connection between
the fluff as an attractor and the seed maturity these two things should have been considered
together in the categorical description of the plant development. While the reviewer doesn’t
think the issue is major enough to exclude the paper from publication, it is something that
should be considered to further measure the benefits of the relationship and addressed more
thoroughly in the paper.
4. The reviewer does feel the authors are overstating their case for antagonism in the relationship.
Further details are provided in the comments pointing out instances of exaggerating with data
that should be corrected. The reviewer is not confident that a direct case for antagonism and
not merely a weak mutualism or commensalism is made for the described relationship with the
presented evidence.
tract
e 1 (Line 41-44) Abstract: Though the authors suggest a low number of seeds in the nest, the
ngth of the authors’ argument that prinia offer little benefit to plant comes from their behavior to
id the seeds. When the reviewer first read the abstract my first thought was “well couldn’t they
p the seeds along the way and disperse them?” The reviewer thinks clarifying the arguments for
ia offering no benefit in the abstract will serve the authors’ paper better.
oduction
introduction was well stated and concise. There are no major recommendations for this section.
thods
nology Measures: Given the connection between the seeds, fluff, and prinia it is curious to me why
authors chose to measure the ease of seed removal and the fluff phenology separately. Wouldn’t it
better to measure those two characteristics together as they are both integral to the potential
ualism and the benefits prinia might provide to the plant?
e 6 Lines 21-23: While the reviewer understand the choice to log transform the count of the number
eed heads (as this is common for count data), at least one line of explanation for the choice of
sformation should be provided to the reader.
t Measurements: After reading the authors’ description at the top of page 7 on how the authors
cted the 10 nest width measurements and the ESM description, it is still not clear to me how
paring location 3 on one nest to location 3 on another nest are equivalent unless the nest shapes
all the same exact structure just scaled depending on size. It is alluded to in the figure caption for
re 7 that the measurements are equivalent, but the reviewer think additional clarity is needed to
ify the comparison. The authors might also consider providing labels on Figure 7 to indicate the
cific location on the nest (at entrance, bottom, etc.). Since in the results the authors then compares
groups by location that information should be provided in the plot.
e 7 Lines 24-28: While the reviewer understands that destroyed or deteriorated nests could not
vide the measurements sought, isn’t it possible that seeds in these nests were dispersed because of
nest destruction?
e 7 Lines 40-52: While the description of the six factors measured is sufficient, there is no provided
lanation as to why these six factors were chosen as explanatory variables. Justification for model
struction is needed to trust the final model.
e 7 Line 53: Stating “We estimated” seems misleading because the authors actually measured the
ber of seeds, but the authors built the models to explore what factors might influence the number
eeds in each nest.
e 8 Line 7: If by “evenly distributed” the authors mean normally distributed please indicate this.
nly distributed gives the perception of being uniformly distributed.
: Nest Interior Measurements. The decision to have a single rater instead of having two raters
fying the same observation (which allows one to test inter rater reliability) is not clear. Please
vide references or evidence to support the decision to use a single rater.
istical Analysis
general choice of analysis and methods (hurdle models, correction for multiple comparisons, etc.)
ears sound, but the transformation of the variables is offered with little explanation to the reader.
re explanation is needed to verify the model construction choices. In general, the authors focused
usively on statistical significance but made little effort to interpret the effect size for each variable
uded in the final model(s) in each case. In addition, the various transformations of the variables
uded in several of the models will make it difficult for the reader to interpret the effect size (such as
able S2B). While statistical significance is important, effect size is especially relevant given the
hors are trying to measure the fitness effects of this relationship on both species.
ults
eneral, please avoid the use of vague terms such as “many” or “some”. Instead state the exact “n”
each observation.
eral Question for Figures: Is it necessary to describe the structure of the boxplot each time? This
uld be general knowledge or a one-liner in the methods, not on every single boxplot figure. It is
undant as this is the standard construction for a boxplot.
re 3AB: The use of a histogram to display longitudinal data is not a good representation of the data.
reviewer would recommend a time series plot. The reviewer would also suggest that the authors
n the axes of plot A and B to a similar scale to allow the reader to see how the number of nests and
t phenology coincide in time.
re 4 Caption Line 45: Clarify the “average number”. It is the average of 100 seed heads for n=10
ts on each date, correct? So each boxplot represents 10 values (not indicated on figure or captions)
e 8 Starting Line 32-48: It would be beneficial to provide the sample size for these various
categories indicated in the text (and not mentioned in Figures) such as how many prinias traveled
r 200 meters, how many >100 meters and <80 meters?
re 5: Given the relationship between number of picks and picking duration wouldn’t a scatterplot
paring these variables be more helpful than two boxplots? You could still include the boxplots along
axes of the scatterplot (such as the ‘scatterplot’ function in package ‘car’ in R).
e 9 Lines 6-13: The authors provide average number of picks and max but no measure of sd with the
rage.
e 9 Line 29: Is there a reason n>10 is reported and not the actual sample size?
re 6: Having the separate boxplots for each species, especially when only 1 nest is represented, is
helpful for comparison of prinia vs. other – which is the comparison the authors make using the
coxon Sum Rank Test. The reviewer would suggest adding another boxplot to the figure that
resents OTHER next to the plot for prinia for direct comparison. It may be more relevant to provide
le points of different colors/styles on the plots for a single observation that a “boxplot”.
ddition, the Figure 6 Caption states “on average” (line 28) which is not what a Wilcoxon test
luates (it compares distributions). Also the authors state the authors conducted a Wilcoxon Sign
k and not Rank Sum. Please correct.
ussion
e 10 Lines 13-22: by focusing on the extremes of just a few situations the authors are overstating the
hors’ case.
e 10 Lines 0-22: If my calculations are correct, the authors state that there are 25-50 seeds per seed
d. If we assume a midpoint of 35 seeds per head and there is an average of 6.6 seed heads in nests,
there is a germination rate of 2.2%, then 35*6.6*0.022 = 5 new plants per nest. Is that really an
cation of low fitness? My understanding of this particular plant’s life history is limited, but please
sider the rates relative to the number of seeds in the nests.
e 10 Line 68: Is it really an antagonistic relationship or a commensalism? Is this relationship truly
mful to the plant? The reviewer is not fully convinced.
clusion
last 2-3 lines of the conclusion kind of drop off leaving the ending hang.
Appendix B
2 November 2016
Dear Drs. Alice Power and Claire Birch,
Thank you sending the helpful reviews on our manuscript RSOS-160538, entitled
"Fluff-thieving birds sabotage seed dispersal."
We have incorporated nearly all of the Reviewers’ recommendations into our
revised manuscript. Below, we provide point-by-point responses detailing how we
incorporated Reviewer suggestions into this revised draft. Reviewer comments are
in italics and our response follows in regular font.
Overall, we feel that the Reviewer comments have improved the quality of the
manuscript by increasing its clarity and readability, and by focusing the manuscript
on the main study objectives. We hope that you find this revised version acceptable
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Thank you,
Vanya Rohwer, Anton Pauw, Paul Martin
Reviewer 1
Many of the suggestions offered are either aesthetic, wording, or detail related and
should be easily evaluated by the authors to either incorporate or ignore as they see fit.
The reviewer does have four main concerns about the paper:
1)The construction of the statistical models includes many transformed variables. The
explanation of the choice of these transformations is non-existent in the paper or ESM
and is important to understand the model construction and evaluation.
We transformed variables whose distributions were significantly different from
a normal distribution prior to any statistical analysis. We transformed these
variables to increase the likelihood of the statistical model fitting the data. We have
added this information into our ESM material (Lines 56-60), and provided more
detailed information on each transformation, including more complicated
transformations that were required when simple transformations failed to
normalize the data (ESM Lines 98-104).
2) Only statistical significance is focused on in the models and throughout the paper
without any evaluation of effect size for various tests/models. Effect size is vital to
assess influence/impact in a relationship. A statistically significant relationship or
difference is not always a meaningful relationship or difference. In addition, the
transformation of the variables in the model will make it challenging for a less
statistically minded individual to correctly interpret the parameter values provided in
the ESM.
We added effect sizes of explanatory variables to all summary outputs of our
statistical models in the ESM (See Tables S3-S6).
3) The choice of categorizations for the phenology excluded seed maturity from
fluffiness categories so they were not measured together. It seems that given the
connection between the fluff as an attractor and the seed maturity these two things
should have been considered together in the categorical description of the plant
development. While the reviewer doesn’t think the issue is major enough to exclude the
paper from publication, it is something that should be considered to further measure
the benefits of the relationship and addressed more thoroughly in the paper.
Both Reviewers pointed this out and we agree with them. Unfortunately, we
do not have data connecting fluff phenology with seed maturity. Although we
suspect that fluff phenology corresponds to seed maturity, we do not know when
seeds become mature relative to the production of fluff. We clarified this in our
discussion, which now reads: “Although the Karoo prinia breeding season
corresponded well with the production of Eriocephalus fluff (Fig. 2), we do not know
if the production of fluff is representative of seed maturity. Over half of the
Eriocephalus plants that we surveyed had reached the most advanced phenological
stage (“thick-fluff”) by 5 October (Fig. 2), but seed-heads on these plants were
possibly still developing as their stems were green and well fastened to plants [49].
Similarly, we do not know how seed maturity is linked to germination success.
Presumably, seeds removed from plants prior to maturation have reduced
germination success and/or survival relative to mature seeds [50]. Establishing the
links between fluff production, seed maturity, and germination success is an
important future step to understand the fitness consequences for Eriocephalus
plants involved in interactions with birds”. Lines 518-528.
4) The reviewer does feel the authors are overstating their case for antagonism in the
relationship. Further details are provided in the comments pointing out instances of
exaggerating with data that should be corrected. The reviewer is not confident that a
direct case for antagonism and not merely a weak mutualism or commensalism is
made for the described relationship with the presented evidence.
Reviewer 1 made valid comments where we had focused on extreme values,
which overstated the potential costs and benefits of this interaction to plants and
birds. We changed these sections so that they are more balanced (e.g., Lines 447-
448, 609-611; see comments below too), but we’ve maintained our hypothesis that
Eriocephalus plants likely receive little benefits of seed dispersal from interactions
with prinias (especially when compared to other birds).
Additional comments from Reviewer 1:
Abstract
Page 1 (Line 41-44) Abstract: Though the authors suggest a low number of seeds in the
nest, the strength of the authors’ argument that prinia offer little benefit to plant
comes from their behavior to avoid the seeds. When the reviewer first read the
abstract my first thought was “well couldn’t they drop the seeds along the way and
disperse them?” The reviewer thinks clarifying the arguments for prinia offering no
benefit in the abstract will serve the authors’ paper better.
We agree and have reworded our abstract to include the observation that
prinias actively avoid gathering Eriocephalus seeds. The revised section in the
abstract now reads: “… Yet, prinias gathered primarily Eriocephalus fluff and
actively avoided gathering seeds. The average prinia nest contained only 6.6 seeds,
but contained fluff from 579 seeds. These data suggest that prinias provide limited
dispersal benefits to Eriocephalus plants… ” Lines 32-34.
Methods
Phenology Measures: Given the connection between the seeds, fluff, and prinia it is
curious to me why the authors chose to measure the ease of seed removal and the fluff
phenology separately. Wouldn’t it be better to measure those two characteristics
together as they are both integral to the potential mutualism and the benefits prinia
might provide to the plant?
This issue was raised by both Reviewers 1 and 2 (see Reviewer 1’s comment
above). We agree, but unfortunately we do not have data to assess the relationship
between fluff phenology and seed maturity. In the discussion, we specifically state
that links between fluff phenology, seed maturity and seed germination warrant
further study. Lines 518-528.
Page 6 Lines 21-23: While the reviewer understand the choice to log transform the
count of the number of seed heads (as this is common for count data), at least one line
of explanation for the choice of transformation should be provided to the reader.
We clarify our rational for this data transformation with the following
sentence: “Prior to analysis, we transformed the number of seed heads removed
using [natural logarithm(number of seeds removed+1)], because the distribution of
these data was right skewed; this transformation helped normalize the distribution
so that the data better fit the assumptions of our model.” Lines 243-245.
Nest Measurements: After reading the authors’ description at the top of page 7 on how
the authors selected the 10 nest width measurements and the ESM description, it is still
not clear to me how comparing location 3 on one nest to location 3 on another nest
are equivalent unless the nest shapes are all the same exact structure just scaled
depending on size. It is alluded to in the figure caption for Figure 7 that the
measurements are equivalent, but the reviewer thinks additional clarity is needed to
justify the comparison. The authors might also consider providing labels on Figure 7 to
indicate the specific location on the nest (at entrance, bottom, etc.). Since in the results
the authors then compares the groups by location that information should be provided
in the plot.
We clarify that nest wall measurements were scaled to landmarks on each
nests with the following sentences: “We quantified the distribution of Eriocephalus
material in Karoo prinia nests by cutting nests in half and measuring nest-wall
thickness at 10 evenly spaced locations around the nest [see Fig. S3 (formerly Fig. 7
prior to revisions)]. We scaled these 10 measurements to landmarks on each nest
(e.g., the nest entrance, base of the nest, and roof of the nest), making nest-wall
measures from different nests comparable.” Lines 278-282.
We also added labels to Fig. S3 (formerly Figure 7) illustrating the bottom
and roof of nests to clarify later analyses that compare the amount of fluff in these
regions. See ESM Fig. S3.
Page 7 Lines 24-28: While the reviewer understands that destroyed or deteriorated
nests could not provide the measurements sought, isn’t it possible that seeds in these
nests were dispersed because of the nest destruction?
Yes. Destroyed nests could certainly help disperse seeds. Whether these
nests allow seeds to be dispersed further or provide better germination compared
to seeds in undestroyed nests likely depends on what destroys the nests. This is
difficult data to obtain but would be interesting to examine in subsequent studies.
For this particular analyses however, we excluded destroyed nests because we
could not be certain that the number of seed heads in them after destruction was
representative of the number of seed heads originally in the nest. See lines 300-303.
Page 7 Lines 40-52: While the description of the six factors measured is sufficient,
there is no provided explanation as to why these six factors were chosen as
explanatory variables. Justification for model construction is needed to trust the final
model.
We agree and added a short explanation for why we included these variables
in the construction of our model. This section now begins with: “Several factors
could influence the amount of Eriocephalus material in prinia nests. Environmental
conditions during the breeding season, bush species in which nests are placed, or
nest height above the ground could be associated with Eriocephalus use, especially if
Eriocephalus material buffers against environmental challenges or reduces nest
failure from predators or parasites attracted to nests placed in certain locations.
Timing of breeding could also influence the amount of material used in nest
construction if late nesting birds have less time to gather Eriocephalus material
compared to early nesting birds, or if the ease by which birds can gather
Eriocephalus material changes during the breeding season. Additionally, proximity
to Eriocephalus plants may influence the amount of material birds add to their
nests.” Lines 314-324.
Page 7 Line 53: Stating “We estimated” seems misleading because the authors actually
measured the number of seeds, but the authors built the models to explore what
factors might influence the number of seeds in each nest.
We changed “estimated” to “measured”. Line 334.
Page 8 Line 7: If by “evenly distributed” the authors mean normally distributed please
indicate this. Evenly distributed gives the perception of being uniformly distributed.
We changed “evenly distributed” to “normally distributed”. Line 345.
ESM: Nest Interior Measurements. The decision to have a single rater instead of having
two raters verifying the same observation (which allows one to test inter rater
reliability) is not clear. Please provide references or evidence to support the decision to
use a single rater.
We used a single rater to control for possible variation when estimating the
amount of Eriocephalus material in nest interiors, similar to other studies where
only a single observer measures aspects of morphology (for example) to account for
slightly different measurement bias among observers. This makes measures from
multiple nests comparable because any observer biases should be the same across
all nests. See lines 26-30 in ESM.
Statistical Analysis
The general choice of analysis and methods (hurdle models, correction for multiple
comparisons, etc.) appears sound, but the transformation of the variables is offered
with little explanation to the reader. More explanation is needed to verify the model
construction choices. In general, the authors focused exclusively on statistical
significance but made little effort to interpret the effect size for each variable included
in the final model(s) in each case. In addition, the various transformations of the
variables included in several of the models will make it difficult for the reader to
interpret the effect size (such as in Table S2B). While statistical significance is
important, effect size is especially relevant given the authors are trying to measure the
fitness effects of this relationship on both species.
Reviewer 1 pointed this out in a couple locations (see comments above) and
we agree. We have provided more details for the choice of explanatory variables in
model construction (Lines 314-323), explained the rationale for variable
transformations (ESM Lines 57-60, 97-105), and we have provided effect sizes for
explanatory variables in our model summaries in the ESM (See Tables S3-S6).
Overall we think these changes help to clarify our methods and will help readers
interpret our results.
Results
In general, please avoid the use of vague terms such as “many” or “some”. Instead state
the exact “n” for each observation.
We replaced vague terms with exact numbers. In the previous section where
we used “some” and “many”, this section now reads: “Data from dissected nests (n =
5) and observations of prinias gathering Eriocephalus material then returning to
their nests (n = 1) show that some prinias traveled over 200 meters (straight-line
distance between bush and nests) to gather Eriocephalus fluff.” Lines 367-370.
General Question for Figures: Is it necessary to describe the structure of the boxplot
each time? This should be general knowledge or a one-liner in the methods, not on
every single boxplot figure. It is redundant as this is the standard construction for a
boxplot.
We agree. We kept one explanation of boxplots in the first figure legend that
used them, then removed all redundant explanations of boxplots in subsequent
figure legends.
Figure 3AB: The use of a histogram to display longitudinal data is not a good
representation of the data. The reviewer would recommend a time series plot. The
reviewer would also suggest that the authors align the axes of plot A and B to a similar
scale to allow the reader to see how the number of nests and plant phenology coincide
in time.
We agree. We replaced our histogram with a time series plot and made axes
between plots A and B similar to facilitate the interpretation of plant and bird
phenologies. See Figure 2.
Figure 4 Caption Line 45: Clarify the “average number”. It is the average of 100 seed
heads for n=10 plants on each date, correct? So each boxplot represents 10 values (not
indicated on figure or captions)
We clarified this figure legend. It now reads: “Number of seed heads removed
from Eriocephalus plants over the season. Box plots summarize the number of seeds
heads removed after plucking at the fluff of 100 Eriocephalus seed heads per plant
for 10 plants during the early (26 Aug), middle (1 Oct), and late (3 Nov) stages of the
Karoo prinia breeding season. Each box represents data from 100 plucks from 10
plants, for a total of 1000 plucks for each date. We returned to the same plants for
each plucking event. The number of seed heads removed with plucking increased
with date, and all plucking events differed from each other in the number of seed
heads removed (glmm; p<0.001 for all intercepts). Pictures illustrate plucking
events that did (top) and did not (bottom) result in the removal of seed heads.” ESM
Lines 149-158.
Page 8 Starting Line 32-48: It would be beneficial to provide the sample size for these
various subcategories indicated in the text (and not mentioned in Figures) such as how
many prinias traveled over 200 meters, how many >100 meters and <80 meters?
Following Reviewer 1’s suggestion, we added sample sizes to these various
subcategories (n=6 for >200m, n=9 for 200-100m, n=22 for <80m). See lines 367-
377.
Figure 5: Given the relationship between number of picks and picking duration
wouldn’t a scatterplot comparing these variables be more helpful than two boxplots?
You could still include the boxplots along the axes of the scatterplot (such as the
‘scatterplot’ function in package ‘car’ in R).
Following Reviewer 1’s suggestion, we removed the two box plots and
summarized this data by regressing number of picks on picking duration. See Figure
3.
Page 9 Lines 6-13: The authors provide average number of picks and max but no
measure of sd with the average.
We added sd to these averages. See line 396.
Page 9 Line 29: Is there a reason n>10 is reported and not the actual sample size?
We changed the wording of this section to read: “…we watched at least 10
prinias gathering fluff from seed heads that were held between their toes, which
may help hold seeds in place so they are not removed with the fluff.” Line 411-413.
We do not report an actual sample size because we observed several cases of birds
holding seeds in place before we started counting these observations.
Figure 6: Having the separate boxplots for each species, especially when only 1 nest is
represented, is not helpful for comparison of prinia vs. other – which is the comparison
the authors make using the Wilcoxon Sum Rank Test. The reviewer would suggest
adding another boxplot to the figure that represents OTHER next to the plot for prinia
for direct comparison. It may be more relevant to provide single points of different
colors/styles on the plots for a single observation that a “boxplot”. In addition, the
Figure 6 Caption states “on average” (line 28) which is not what a Wilcoxon test
evaluates (it compares distributions). Also the authors state the authors conducted a
Wilcoxon Sign Rank and not Rank Sum. Please correct.
We agree and remade this figure so that it shows the comparison of prinias
to all other species (in part A of the new figure), then summarized the data for
individual species that were lumped in the “other” category (in part B of the new
figure). Following Reviewer 1’s suggestion, we also replaced “boxplots” with points
for species that we had less then three nests, and corrected our wording of this
figure legend; it now reads: “Comparison of Eriocephalus seed heads in bird nests
from Koeberg Nature Reserve. (A) Nests of Karoo prinias (Prinia maculosa)
contained fewer seeds than nests of other bird species (Wilcoxon rank sum test,
p<0.0001). (B) The number of Eriocephalus seed heads in the nests of the seven bird
species grouped in the category “other” in part (A) of this figure.” See Figure 4 and
lines 886-890.
Discussion
Page 10 Lines 13-22: by focusing on the extremes of just a few situations the authors
are overstating the authors’ case.
We agree and changed our wording to illustrate that prinias regularly travel
outside of their territory to gather Eriocephalus material, rather than provide the
maximum distances that some birds traveled. Lines 447-448.
Page 10 Lines 0-22: If my calculations are correct, the authors state that there are 25-
50 seeds per seed head. If we assume a midpoint of 35 seeds per head and there is an
average of 6.6 seed heads in nests, and there is a germination rate of 2.2%, then
35*6.6*0.022 = 5 new plants per nest. Is that really an indication of low fitness? My
understanding of this particular plant’s life history is limited, but please consider the
rates relative to the number of seeds in the nests.
This is an excellent point. We’ve provided similar calculations to those of
Reviewer 1 above, but for both prinias and other birds to show that the average
prinia nest could germinate 0.145 seed heads, while nests of other birds could
germinate 1.782 seed heads, a differences of nearly 12 times. We’ve also clarified
that the germination rates estimated in other studies are likely for seed heads, not
individual seeds. Lines 496-497 and 500-505.
Conclusion
The last 2-3 lines of the conclusion kind of drop off leaving the ending hang.
We agree and added more content to the conclusion, which we believe makes
it more complete and also provides a balanced summary or our main conclusions.
See lines 605-622.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
The manuscript by Rohwer et al. presents the results of an interesting study on the
interactions between Eriocephalus plants and birds in South Africa. The study suggests
that prinias provide limited dispersal benefits to Eriocephalus plants, but that they
benefit from constructing their nests with Eriocephalus material.
The manuscript is well written e it is rich in details. The introduction is clear and well
founded. The methods and analyses seem appropriate (though I have doubts on some
points). The interpretations are supported by the data.
I have no major issues but have a number of comments below that should be carefully
considered by the authors to increase the readability of the ms by Royal Society Open
Science audience.
1) Page 1, lines 42-43: this is a bit confusing - It is difficult to understand this sentence
without reading the whole manuscript.
We Agree. Both Reviewers suggested we clarify the abstract. This section now reads:
“…Yet, prinias gathered primarily Eriocephalus fluff and actively avoided gathering
seeds. The average prinia nest contained only 6.6 seeds, but contained fluff from 579
seeds.” Lines 32-34.
2) Page 2, lines 33-35: How Eriocephalus seed material in nest reduces nest
ectoparasitism or predation? Please clarify.
We clarified how Eriocephalus material could increase reproductive success
by stating: “Birds that incorporate Eriocephalus seed material into their nests may
benefit in diverse ways. For example, the chemical compounds in Eriocephalus seed
material could reduce nest ectoparasites or nest predation from predators that rely
on olfactory cues to locate nests. Similarly, the pale fluff surrounding Eriocephalus
seed material could improve nest microclimate or help conceal nests from visual
predators, increasing the reproductive success of birds. Eriocephalus plants may
also benefit from interactions with birds.” Lines 67-73.
3) Page 4, lines 12-13: What is the size of the territory of Karoo prinias? Include this
information here because you will use later on in the text (Page 8, lines 43-48).
As suggested by Reviewer 2, we have added the average territory diameter
for Karoo Prinias at our study site. Lines 144-145.
4) Page 5, lines 4-7: The sentence is a bit confusing.
We have deleted this statement because both Reviewers found it confusing
and it was not essential to paper.
5) Page 6, lines 6-11: Do you removed the fluff or the seed head? This information is
very important since as mentioned by you in the text and as seen in the video
(supplementary material), in the most times Karoo prinias only remove the fluff.
We re-worded this section to make our methods more clear. It now reads:
“We simulated fluff-picking behavior of prinias using forceps that had a surface area
similar to the beaks of prinia and other small passerine birds. During each seed head
removal trial, we plucked at the fluff of 100 Eriocephalus seed heads from 10
different plants (1000 seed heads in total for each plucking date) and counted the
number of plucks that resulted in the removal of a seed head from the plant.” Lines
228-233.
6) Page 6, lines 30-39: I do not understand this experiment at all. You used the
coordinates of GPS to infer the distances of nests to the closest Eriocephalus plant,
right? It seems to me that you did two measures.
We clarified this section so that it now reads: “We measured the distance that
prinias travelled to gather Eriocephalus material by watching focal birds gather
material and then return to their nests. For each observation, we made two
measurements (in meters) using a GPS receiver: (i) the straight-line distance from
the nest to the plant from which prinias gathered material, and (ii) the strait-line
distance from the nest to the closest Eriocephalus plant that was at a similar
phenological stage as the plant from which prinias gathered material. We then
compared these two distances to test if prinias gathered material from Eriocephalus
plants closest to their nests.” Lines 251-258.
7) Page 6, lines 40-45: It is not clear the first method of estimate of the time spent
gathering Eriocephalus material.
We clarified the first method of measuring the time spent gathering
Eriocephalus fluff; this section now reads: “…First, we watched focal birds and
measured the time (in seconds) spent perched in Eriocephalus plants while
gathering a single load of material. We used a stopwatch and defined the time spent
gathering material as the interval between the first and last picks at Eriocephalus
fluff during a single visit to a Eriocephalus plant, which roughly corresponded to
when the bird arrived and departed from the plant.” Lines 263-267.
8) Page 8, lines 33-39: Due to lack of clarity in the methods (comment 6), I am still in
doubt about these two distances of 209 and 344 m.
We clarify that these two measures are distances that prinias travelled to
gather Eriocephalus material, but that one distance (209m) comes from direct
observations and the other (344m) is inferred from dissected nests where we
measured distances between the nests and the closest Eriocephalus plant. See lines
367-369.
9) Page 11, lines 37-38: You could have tested this by comparing the germination rate
of seeds in each phenophase fluff.
We agree. Both Reviewers pointed out the need to link fluff phenology to
seed maturity and germination rates. Unfortunately, we do not have these data. We
point out this shortcoming in the discussion (Lines 518-528) and have added a brief
section about the need to link fluff phenology to seed maturation and germination in
future work. See our responses to Reviewer 1’s comments above, and lines 526-528
in discussion.
10) Page 14, lines 3-4: In reference Bronstein et al. (2006), the journal name should be
abbreviated.
Fixed. Now reads: “New Phytol.”
11) Page 14, lines 16-17: In reference Frederickson (2013), the journal name should be
abbreviated.
Fixed. Now reads: “Q Rev Biol.”
12) Page 14, lines 46-47: In reference Yu and Pierce (1998), the journal name is not
with the standard abbreviation: Proc R Soc B.
Fixed. Now reads: “Proc R Soc B.”
13) Page 16, lines 29-30: The year of publication of the reference Martin and Roper is
wrong. The year of publication correct is 1988.
Fixed.
14) Page 17, lines 30-32: Author surnames of the reference Jalink et al. (1999) is
wrong. Please check.
Fixed.
15) Page 17, lines 52-53: In reference Stevens and Merilaita (2009), the journal name
is not with the standard abbreviation: Phil Trans R Soc B.
Fixed. Now Reads: “Phil Trans R Soc B.”
16) Page 17, lines 55-57: In title of paper of the Clucas et al. (2008) is "exploit" and not
"expoit".
Fixed.
17) Include the Authors' Contributions section
We added an author contributions section to the manuscript.
18) The figures are interesting and self-explanatory. However, I believe that not all are
necessary. Figures 1 and 2 provide information on the methods and can be placed in
the Electronic supplementary material without prejudice to for the understanding of
the study. Similarly, Figures 7 and 8 and Table 1 refer to secondary results and
therefore can also be placed in the electronic supplementary material. This reduces the
length of the paper and leaves the manuscript more focused on the three proposed
objectives.
Following Reviewer 2’s suggestion, we moved several figures and table 1 to
ESM. The revised manuscript now includes 4 figures, all of which we think are
essential to the paper because they focus on the three central questions that our
paper addresses. We agree that shifting this material to the ESM helps streamline
the paper and better communicate the major findings of this work.
Society Open
