Long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) can use simple
heuristics but fail at drawing statistical inferences from
populations to samples
Sarah Placì, Johanna Eckert, Hannes Rakoczy and Julia Fischer
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 181025.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.181025
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 June 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-181025.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Marine Joly)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This study investigates statistical reasoning in some Old World monkeys, namely long-tailed
macaques. Using previously published paradigms used with children and apes, the authors
tested 11 macaques in 4 different experiments whereby an experimenter presented pairs of
buckets filled with varying proportions of preferred vs neutral food items. The results showed
that, as a group, macaques did not succeed in making statistical inferences from the populations
to the samples presented by the experimenter; they rather relied on heuristics to make their
decisions.
The study adds to the current literature on numerical cognition and statistical reasoning in non-
human primates and contributes to better illuminate the evolutionary foundations of intuitive
statistics. The study builds on previous work in a productive and useful way and it is well-
presented and well-written. The study is well framed, the Methods and Results are clear, the
protocols are robust with several control conditions. The statistical analysis is, to my knowledge,
generally sound. I find the collective results robust, reliable and believable. The Discussion is
open-handed and does not overreach.
The two figures and two tables are clear and informative and the supplementary material is
clearly presented. I applaud the provision of R scripts to follow how the analysis were performed.
It is not my nature to submit short reviews as I know that short reviews are often unhelpful for an
editor. However, I thought this was a well-presented study and I enjoyed reading the paper. I
think also that it is important to publish negative results - this helps to reframe current
paradigms, theories and hypotheses.
I hope the authors find my below comments constructive and helpful.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I shall now make few minor comments, aimed at improving the manuscript.
ABSTRACT
•Line 26: ‘this suggests that statistical reasoning might depend on some core knowledge that
humans share with other primate species’ – please add ‘primate’ as it is too vague
KEYWORDS:
I would add here ‘numerical cognition’ and delete ‘statistical reasoning’ as it is already present in
the abstract (words in the abstracts are usually indexed).
METHODS
•Line 217: the numbering of the paragraph (3. Experiment 1a and b) is awkward as there is no
previous 1. and 2.? You are here presenting results so I would entitle the whole paragraph
‘Results and Discussion’ and then present each experiment findings. Please amend accordingly
for the rest of the paragraph.
DISCUSSION
• Lines 417-420: Could you please expand this discussion point here, namely a convergent
evolution of intuitive statistics in New World monkeys and apes, but apparently not in Old
World monkeys according to the present study. Why? Could you please provide the reader with
different explanations?
3
Supplemental files
• The supplementary materials word files 1 and 2 have a different title than the article (‘Some but
not all long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) engage in intuitive statistics’). Please amend so
that it is coherent with the title of the submitted article.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-181025.R0)
06-Aug-2018
Dear Miss Placì
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-181025 entitled
"Long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) can use simple heuristics but fail at drawing
statistical inferences from populations to samples" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-181025
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
4
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript before 15-Aug-2018. Please note that the revision
deadline will expire at 00.00am on this date. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date
please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science charge article processing charges for all new
submissions that are accepted for publication. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to
Royal Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers
submitted as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication, you will be
asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is approved by
Royal Society Publishing. You can find out more about the charges at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Alecia Carter (Associate Editor) and Prof. Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Alecia Carter):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Review of RSOS-181025
I apologise for the delay in getting this decision back to the authors: we had some trouble finding
reviewers for it. As such, I have received one review, and reviewed the manuscript myself. The
first reviewer was very complimentary of the study, as you will see below. I find myself in
agreement with this reviewer—the manuscript was a pleasure to read. I found this study to be
excellent: it was well-written, easy to follow, and addressed an interesting question with
6
appropriate experiments and controls. Overall, I was impressed with the care that was taken in
the design and execution of the study and the clarity of the writing. I have only one substantial
comment: In general, I found the discussion to be rather superficial—only two points are
addressed in detail, but many more interesting points are raised in passing by the authors. I
would encourage the authors to further address certain points, such as, but not limited to: Do the
authors think that the individual macaques are employing different “heuristics” that result in the
difference in performance, or that some do not understand the task and others do, etc? More
generally, why did the two individuals out-perform the others, and why did Maya in particular
perform particularly well? I did not find the manuscript too long that a longer treatment of the
findings are not warranted in the Discussion and I suspect that the authors have a lot more that
they could say about them.
Related to this point, given the importance of relevant controls, and that they are missing in other
studies, I feel that more could be made about the point that the authors make about the other
studies’ limitations. As it is currently written, it underplays the importance of the critique, which
I feel could be more strongly worded / made, perhaps by restructuring the paragraph. But this is
a personal preference!
Below I list a number of very minor (usually grammatical) edits that could be incorporated to
improve the readability of the manuscript.
L26: To aid reconstruct -> to aid the reconstruction of
L28: monkeys -> monkey
L28: Experiments -> experiments
L45: at -> to
L53: return -> turn
L58: between -> among
L65: 6-month-old -> 6 months old
L75: insert a comma after the reference
LL75-76: as the clause is written, it suggests that the Mayan groups do not have language. It
might be best to restructure this to read something like: “… show that pre-verbal humans and
those without a formal education appear …” (The wording could change, but the order should be
reversed as in this example. Additionally, it’s not clear when infants acquire language, but they
do understand it long before they use it, so “preverbal” may be more accurate than “without
language”.)
L79: thereafter -> hereafter
L80: monkeys -> monkey
L84: evolutionary -> evolutionarily
L88: monkeys -> monkey
L90: evolutionary -> evolutionarily
L94: monkeys -> monkey
L98: similarly -> similar
L104: macaques -> macaque
L104: similarly -> similar
L120: can the authors specify that this is experiment 1 here (for completeness).
LL125-128: this is the first mention of grapes and monkey chow—perhaps it would be useful to
mention that these are the preferred and neutral food items at L118 to be explicit (otherwise the
reader has to guess from the conditions).
L150&153: can you use the same units for the attachable cage as the testing cage i.e. m?
L196: remove “of”
L207: this is one variable, if I’ve understood correctly, so should be “fixed effect” (c.f. “fixed
effects”). (Though it seems from the results that this model also includes trial number as a fixed
effect? If so, please mention that here.)
L209: on -> at
7
L230: is there any discussion in this section? Perhaps the heading is better as just “Results”?
L234 and elsewhere: why is a variable number of decimal places reported, and so many of them?
It doesn’t look as if the same number of significant digits are used in each, and most manuscripts
would report only 2 significant digits (not 4 or 5). I would recommend rounding these values to 2
decimal places / 3 significant digits, but be consistent.
LL238-243: I think that this paragraph belongs at the beginning of the next section (4. Experiment
2a, b and c). The sentence at L246 could then start: “As such,” or something similar. (I feel the
justification belongs with the description of the experiment.)
L259: as follow up -> as a follow up
L274: respectively, not -> respectively, which was not
L291: in case they -> in the case that they
L335: + => ±
LL345-350: I would encourage the authors to remove the references to Experiment 1, 2, etc.
without explaining what the experiments were. There are a lot of experiments, and the reader
will struggle to remember exactly which ones did what. In particular, the parenthetical reference
to capuchins’ experiment 4 is out of context—state what the experiment was, not the number of
the experiment.
L350: In conclusion, there seem to be -> Our results demonstrate
L353: hand; a pattern that is consistent with a -> hand. This pattern suggests
L356: were at chance -> performed at chance level
L368: what is meant by “simpler” here? My impression from the explanation is that the monkeys
struggled with inhibiting their impulse to choose the bucket with the greater number of grapes,
but the task was the same “difficulty” regarding the statistical inferences that had to be made.
Perhaps “simpler” could be changed to a different word that reflects this nuance in the tasks
(though I admit that none readily jump to my mind, I’m afraid).
L375: amount -> number
L376: remove the comma
LL379-380: were at chance -> performed at chance level
LL413-415: some of these explanations need to be expanded upon earlier in the discussion before
being raised here (e.g. sustained attention, motivation, inability to use information format, etc.).
See also my initial comment about the superficiality of the Discussion.
L420: to analyse -> of analysing
L421: to identify -> the identification of
L421: what is meant by “strategies” here and how does it differ from “heuristics”?
Table 1: Please provide the age (in years) at testing rather than the birth date as this is more
relevant (and the reader thus does not have to read the text to determine when testing was done
to calculate the ages themselves, etc.).
Figure 1: It’s not really worth mentioning as it doesn’t require a change (as I assume it would be
difficult to do so), but I found the masculine experimenter depicted in Figure 1 to be ironic given
the gender of the study’s first and senior authors, and proportion of female authors on the study.
I hope the authors find this review constructive.
Alecia Carter
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This study investigates statistical reasoning in some Old World monkeys, namely long-tailed
macaques. Using previously published paradigms used with children and apes, the authors
tested 11 macaques in 4 different experiments whereby an experimenter presented pairs of
buckets filled with varying proportions of preferred vs neutral food items. The results showed
8
that, as a group, macaques did not succeed in making statistical inferences from the populations
to the samples presented by the experimenter; they rather relied on heuristics to make their
decisions.
The study adds to the current literature on numerical cognition and statistical reasoning in non-
human primates and contributes to better illuminate the evolutionary foundations of intuitive
statistics. The study builds on previous work in a productive and useful way and it is well-
presented and well-written. The study is well framed, the Methods and Results are clear, the
protocols are robust with several control conditions. The statistical analysis is, to my knowledge,
generally sound. I find the collective results robust, reliable and believable. The Discussion is
open-handed and does not overreach.
The two figures and two tables are clear and informative and the supplementary material is
clearly presented. I applaud the provision of R scripts to follow how the analysis were performed.
It is not my nature to submit short reviews as I know that short reviews are often unhelpful for an
editor. However, I thought this was a well-presented study and I enjoyed reading the paper. I
think also that it is important to publish negative results - this helps to reframe current
paradigms, theories and hypotheses.
I hope the authors find my below comments constructive and helpful.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I shall now make few minor comments, aimed at improving the manuscript.
ABSTRACT
•Line 26: ‘this suggests that statistical reasoning might depend on some core knowledge that
humans share with other primate species’ – please add ‘primate’ as it is too vague
KEYWORDS:
I would add here ‘numerical cognition’ and delete ‘statistical reasoning’ as it is already present in
the abstract (words in the abstracts are usually indexed).
METHODS
•Line 217: the numbering of the paragraph (3. Experiment 1a and b) is awkward as there is no
previous 1. and 2.? You are here presenting results so I would entitle the whole paragraph
‘Results and Discussion’ and then present each experiment findings. Please amend accordingly
for the rest of the paragraph.
DISCUSSION
• Lines 417-420: Could you please expand this discussion point here, namely a convergent
evolution of intuitive statistics in New World monkeys and apes, but apparently not in Old
World monkeys according to the present study. Why? Could you please provide the reader with
different explanations?
Supplemental files
• The supplementary materials word files 1 and 2 have a different title than the article (‘Some but
not all long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) engage in intuitive statistics’). Please amend so
that it is coherent with the title of the submitted article.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-181025.R0)
See Appendix A.
9
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-181025.R1)
15-Aug-2018
Dear Miss Placì,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Long-tailed macaques (Macaca
fascicularis) can use simple heuristics but fail at drawing statistical inferences from populations to
samples" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Alecia Carter (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Dr. Carter,
We would like to thank you for your decision letter and the work you did to help
improve our manuscript.
We would also like to thank you and the other reviewer for the helpful and
constructive comments you both provided. We hope we addressed all of your
suggestions in a satisfying way and think the manuscript is much improved.
Reviewer #1
1. I would encourage the authors to further address certain points, such as, but not
limited to: Do the authors think that the individual macaques are employing
different “heuristics” that result in the difference in performance, or that some do
not understand the task and others do, etc? More generally, why did the two
individuals out-perform the others, and why did Maya in particular perform
particularly well? I did not find the manuscript too long that a longer treatment of
the findings are not warranted in the Discussion and I suspect that the authors have
a lot more that they could say about them.
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for this comment. Incidentally, we had
substantially shortened the discussion after discussion of the first draft. We were
therefore delighted about the invitation to expand the discussion. Specifically, we
added a paragraph about some reasons that could account for this individual
variation in performance (l. 380-405).
2. Related to this point, given the importance of relevant controls, and that they are
missing in other studies, I feel that more could be made about the point that the
authors make about the other studies’ limitations. As it is currently written, it
underplays the importance of the critique, which I feel could be more strongly
worded / made, perhaps by restructuring the paragraph. But this is a personal
preference!
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for this comment. We agree that it is important
to address the limitations of other studies more explicitly, and we thus developed
on this point by adding some lines to existing paragraphs (l. 367-369; l. 419-429; l.
440-445).
Minor edits:
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for her careful attention to these grammatical
and other details. We edited everything as she suggested. We particularly agree
with her last comment, about the gender of the character depicted in our Fig. 1. We
turned it into a female character.
Reviewer #2
1. ABSTRACT
•Line 26: ‘this suggests that statistical reasoning might depend on some core
knowledge that humans share with other primate species’ – please add ‘primate’ as
it is too vague
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for this suggestion. We corrected as suggested.
2. KEYWORDS:
I would add here ‘numerical cognition’ and delete ‘statistical reasoning’ as it is
already present in the abstract (words in the abstracts are usually indexed).
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for this suggestion. We corrected as suggested.
3. METHODS
•Line 217: the numbering of the paragraph (3. Experiment 1a and b) is awkward as
there is no previous 1. and 2.? You are here presenting results so I would entitle the
whole paragraph ‘Results and Discussion’ and then present each experiment
findings. Please amend accordingly for the rest of the paragraph.
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for this comment. There was in fact a mistake
with the numbering of the paragraph. We removed it and we also renamed the
section “Result and discussion” and then presented each experiment findings as
suggested (l. 210).
4. DISCUSSION
• Lines 417-420: Could you please expand this discussion point here, namely a
convergent evolution of intuitive statistics in New World monkeys and apes, but
apparently not in Old World monkeys according to the present study. Why? Could
you please provide the reader with different explanations?
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for this comment. We expanded the discussion
here (l. 440-447), but we did not bring forward explanations about why there could
have been a convergent evolution of this capacity. In our view, there is not yet clear
evidence of this ability except in humans and apes, we therefore don´t want to
speculate blindly.
5. Supplemental files
• The supplementary materials word files 1 and 2 have a different title than the
article (‘Some but not all long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis) engage in
intuitive statistics’). Please amend so that it is coherent with the title of the
submitted article.
RESPONSE: We thank the reviewer for comment. We corrected this as suggested.
Society Open
