The influence of leg-to-body ratio, arm-to-body ratio and
intra-limb ratio on male human attractiveness
Thomas M. M. Versluys, Robert A. Foley and William J. Skylark
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171790.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171790
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 November 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 April 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171790.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a good manuscript.
In popular culture much more emphasis is put on beauty of long legs than long calves or arms,
hence previous studies examined the dependence of attractiveness on length of legs rather than
arms or calves. However, health and stressors are associated with length of upper and lower
limbs and their distal segments. There are also theoretical reasons to prefer average
morphological variants, including average leg or arm length proportion. Therefore, authors were
right to examine preference for length proportion of arms and distal segments of limbs.
Authors found rather no preference for length of arms, forearms or calves. This is concordant
with the absence of a “long arms, long forearms, and long calves” norm in popular culture.
However, this is discordant with the abovementioned scientific knowledge on determinants of
limb proportions and on preference for averageness. Authors provide a reasonable discussion of
this topic.
Stimuli used in this research are of a good visual quality. Magnitude of manipulations applied to
the virtual male were carefully calculated from anthropometric data. Statistical analysis is clear
and seems to be fine.
I have only several minor remarks:
1. Total leg length was measured from trochanter to ankle. Why not to the base? Authors
measured arms from acromion to wrist (rather than to finger tips) and explained that this was
because they were interested in length of long bones. This makes sense because long bones are
the most sensitive to growth factors. I suspect that a similar reason was for the measurement of
leg length up to ankle rather than the base. It should be explicitly provided in the manuscript.
2. To which styloid process were arms measured – lateral (radial) or medial (ulnar)?
3. On page 13, line 27, it reads: „(...) and to examine preferences for male figures”. Should not be
“female figures”?
4. On page 8, line 22, it stands „the the baseline” (double “the”).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Ian Stephen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript describes a series of 3 studies investigating the role of limb proportions to
attractiveness of male bodies. It is interesting, well designed and well written. I have only minor
comments.
The Study 1 stimulus construction section is confusing. 3 ABR x 3 LBR x 3 IR = 27 bodies. 7 ABR x
7 LBR x 7 IR = 343. Listed in table 1 are 28 bodies. How do you get 75? Relatedly, Fig 2 makes it
look like ABR and LBR were +/- 2 and 3 SD from the mean, but IR is only +/- 3 SD. Why? This
section as a whole needs some clarification, and some justification of the decisions made.
Results: I think Greenhouse-Geisser correction is usually used for violations of sphericity. Why
was Huynh-Feldt used here? Please justify and/or add a reference to back up this choice.
General Discussion
A couple more limitations should be acknowledged. First, only a single base identity was used.
The preferences for longer legs etc could therefore be specific to this base body, rather than
generalisable to male bodies in general. Second, do you have any evidence to suggest that either
the base body or a US army sample are representative of male bodies more generally. It seems to
me that an example body for a 3D modelling package may be expected to be more attractively
proportioned than the population as a whole. Also, soldiers in a volunteer army with fitness tests
for entry may be expected to have different body types to the general population. These issues
should be discussed
P12 "less perceptually salient or detectable than the chances in LBR" Chances should be changes
P12 "variability in ABR may suggest that his aspect" His should be this
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171790.R0)
27-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Skylark
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171790 entitled
"The influence of leg-to-body ratio, arm-to-body ratio, and intra-limb ratio on male human
attractiveness" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
4
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171790
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
5
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 05-Apr-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
6
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Anastasia Christakou (Associate Editor) and Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a good manuscript.
In popular culture much more emphasis is put on beauty of long legs than long calves or arms,
hence previous studies examined the dependence of attractiveness on length of legs rather than
arms or calves. However, health and stressors are associated with length of upper and lower
limbs and their distal segments. There are also theoretical reasons to prefer average
morphological variants, including average leg or arm length proportion. Therefore, authors were
right to examine preference for length proportion of arms and distal segments of limbs.
Authors found rather no preference for length of arms, forearms or calves. This is concordant
with the absence of a “long arms, long forearms, and long calves” norm in popular culture.
However, this is discordant with the abovementioned scientific knowledge on determinants of
limb proportions and on preference for averageness. Authors provide a reasonable discussion of
this topic.
Stimuli used in this research are of a good visual quality. Magnitude of manipulations applied to
the virtual male were carefully calculated from anthropometric data. Statistical analysis is clear
and seems to be fine.
I have only several minor remarks:
1. Total leg length was measured from trochanter to ankle. Why not to the base? Authors
measured arms from acromion to wrist (rather than to finger tips) and explained that this was
because they were interested in length of long bones. This makes sense because long bones are
the most sensitive to growth factors. I suspect that a similar reason was for the measurement of
leg length up to ankle rather than the base. It should be explicitly provided in the manuscript.
2. To which styloid process were arms measured – lateral (radial) or medial (ulnar)?
3. On page 13, line 27, it reads: „(...) and to examine preferences for male figures”. Should not be
“female figures”?
4. On page 8, line 22, it stands „the the baseline” (double “the”).
7
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript describes a series of 3 studies investigating the role of limb proportions to
attractiveness of male bodies. It is interesting, well designed and well written. I have only minor
comments.
The Study 1 stimulus construction section is confusing. 3 ABR x 3 LBR x 3 IR = 27 bodies. 7 ABR x
7 LBR x 7 IR = 343. Listed in table 1 are 28 bodies. How do you get 75? Relatedly, Fig 2 makes it
look like ABR and LBR were +/- 2 and 3 SD from the mean, but IR is only +/- 3 SD. Why? This
section as a whole needs some clarification, and some justification of the decisions made.
Results: I think Greenhouse-Geisser correction is usually used for violations of sphericity. Why
was Huynh-Feldt used here? Please justify and/or add a reference to back up this choice.
General Discussion
A couple more limitations should be acknowledged. First, only a single base identity was used.
The preferences for longer legs etc could therefore be specific to this base body, rather than
generalisable to male bodies in general. Second, do you have any evidence to suggest that either
the base body or a US army sample are representative of male bodies more generally. It seems to
me that an example body for a 3D modelling package may be expected to be more attractively
proportioned than the population as a whole. Also, soldiers in a volunteer army with fitness tests
for entry may be expected to have different body types to the general population. These issues
should be discussed
P12 "less perceptually salient or detectable than the chances in LBR" Chances should be changes
P12 "variability in ABR may suggest that his aspect" His should be this
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171790.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171790.R1)
13-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Skylark,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The influence of leg-to-body ratio,
arm-to-body ratio, and intra-limb ratio on male human attractiveness" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
8
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Anastasia Christakou (Associate Editor) and Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Drs Christakou and Hamilton,
Thank you for your action letter regarding our manuscript.
We have made the minor revisions requested by the Reviewers, and hope that the new version will
be acceptable for publication.
Of course, we’d be happy to make further changes if they would improve the manuscript further.
The changes are highlighted in the manuscript below our response to the reviewers.
Thank you for considering our resubmission, and best wishes,
William Skylark
Comments from Reviewer 1
I have only several minor remarks:
1. Total leg length was measured from trochanter to ankle. Why not to the base? Authors measured
arms from acromion to wrist (rather than to finger tips) and explained that this was because they
were interested in length of long bones. This makes sense because long bones are the most sensitive
to growth factors. I suspect that a similar reason was for the measurement of leg length up to ankle
rather than the base. It should be explicitly provided in the manuscript.
We have clarified as follows:
“Anatomical leg length is defined as the length of the tibia plus femur [13], so our approach
is a closer approximation of anatomical leg length than the more common measurement of
distance from base of foot to the perineum (crotch) seen in the literature (e.g., [19,26]).”
2. To which styloid process were arms measured – lateral (radial) or medial (ulnar)?
Clarified as “radial styloid process”
3. On page 13, line 27, it reads: „(...) and to examine preferences for male figures”. Should not be
“female figures”?
Corrected to “female figures”
4. On page 8, line 22, it stands „the the baseline” (double “the”).
Corrected.
Comments from Reviewer 2
This manuscript describes a series of 3 studies investigating the role of limb proportions to
attractiveness of male bodies. It is interesting, well designed and well written. I have only minor
comments.
1) The Study 1 stimulus construction section is confusing. 3 ABR x 3 LBR x 3 IR = 27 bodies. 7
ABR x 7 LBR x 7 IR = 343. Listed in table 1 are 28 bodies. How do you get 75? Relatedly, Fig 2
makes it look like ABR and LBR were +/- 2 and 3 SD from the mean, but IR is only +/- 3 SD.
Why? This section as a whole needs some clarification, and some justification of the decisions
made.
We think the Reviewer might have mis-read this section. The Design section states:
“The study had a 5 (LBR) x 5 (ABR) x 3 (IR) design. Each participant was assigned randomly to
one IR group (-3 SD, 0 SD, or +3 SD from the population mean), which was a between-subject
factor (N-3SD = 112; N0SD = 117; N+3SD = 112); participants judged all combinations of LBR and
ABR for their given IR, for a total of 25 figures.”
In other words, there are a total of 5*5*3 =75 figures, and each participant saw all of the figures in
one of the three IR conditions = 25 figures per participant.
Nonetheless, we have clarified our approach and justification in the introduction to Study 1, as
follows:
“Because this study is the first to investigate the effects of ABR and IR, and because it uses a
factorial design, we chose values that were relatively extreme to maximise the chance of
detecting an effect and to keep the number of stimulus combinations manageable, while
ensuring that the values were within the population distribution. We therefore presented
each participant with 25 figures obtained by factorial combining 5 ABRs (-3, -2, 0, +2, and +3
SD from baseline) with 5 LBRs (again, -3, -2, 0, +2, and +3 SD from baseline). Each participant
was tested with one of three IRs (-3, 0, or +3 SD from baseline); IR was varied between
subjects to avoid overburdening participants, and only 3 IR values were tested in order to
limit the total required sample size. We varied IR within subjects, and used more IR values, in
Studies 2 and 3.”
2) Results: I think Greenhouse-Geisser correction is usually used for violations of sphericity. Why was
Huynh-Feldt used here? Please justify and/or add a reference to back up this choice.
The Hyunh-Feldt correction is just an alternative to the Greenhouse-Geisser, and is described in
many textbooks. We have added a reference to Huynh-Feldt (1976).
3) A couple more limitations should be acknowledged. First, only a single base identity was used. The
preferences for longer legs etc could therefore be specific to this base body, rather than generalisable
to male bodies in general. Second, do you have any evidence to suggest that either the base body or
a US army sample are representative of male bodies more generally. It seems to me that an example
body for a 3D modelling package may be expected to be more attractively proportioned than the
population as a whole. Also, soldiers in a volunteer army with fitness tests for entry may be expected
to have different body types to the general population. These issues should be discussed.
We have noted these limitations, as follows:
“Nonetheless, our studies have several limitations. We used a single “base” body from the
modelling software, and this physique is in some respects atypical (e.g., the figure is very
lean and probably more attractively proportioned than the average man). Likewise, although
we used an anthropological database to select limb proportions, the soldiers measured for
this database are likely to differ from the overall population in some respects because of the
fitness requirements for military service. Clearly, there is scope for future studies to use
improved measurements data and a wider variety of base figures, to test the generality of
the effects of limb proportions.”
P12 "less perceptually salient or detectable than the chances in LBR" Chances should be changes
P12 "variability in ABR may suggest that his aspect" His should be this
We have corrected both typos.
The influence of leg-to-body ratio, arm-to-body ratio, and intra-limb ratio on male human
attractiveness
Thomas M.M. Versluys, Robert A. Foley, and William J. Skylark
University of Cambridge
Corresponding author: William J. Skylark
Department of Psychology
University of Cambridge
CB2 3EB
United Kingdom
email: wjm22@cam.ac.uk
Abstract
Human mate choice is influenced by limb proportions. Previous work has focussed on leg-to-body
(LBR) ratio as a determinant of male attractiveness and found a preference for limbs that are close
to, or slightly above, the average. We investigated the influence of two other key aspects of limb
morphology: arm-to-body ratio (ABR) and intra-limb ratio (IR). In 3 studies of heterosexual women
from the USA, we tested the attractiveness of male physiques that varied in LBR, ABR, and IR, using
figures that ranged from -3 to +3 SD from the population mean. We replicated previous work by
finding that the optimally-attractive LBR is approximately 0.5 standard deviations above the
baseline. We also found a weak effect of intra-limb ratio, with evidence of a weak preference for the
baseline proportions. In contrast, there was no effect of ABR on attractiveness, and no interactions
between the effects of LBR, ABR, and IR. Our results indicate that ABR is not an important
determinant of human mate choice for this population, and that IR may exert some influence but
that this is much smaller than the effects of LBR. We discuss possible reasons for these results,
including the limited variability in upper limb proportions and the potentially weak fitness-signal
provided by this aspect of morphology.
Keywords: attractiveness; morphology; limb proportions
The influence of leg-to-body ratio, arm-to-body ratio, and intra-limb ratio on male human
attractiveness
Attractiveness has a substantial impact on human well-being, with more attractive people
being perceived as more sociable [1], intelligent [2], and healthy [3] than their less attractive
counterparts. This set of positive attributions, known as “the halo effect” [4], arguably has significant
implications for life outcomes, because attractiveness is positively correlated with job prospects
[5,6], wages [7], judicial decisions [8], election results [9,10], marriage stability [7,11], and biological
fecundity [12]; attractiveness may also be disadvantageous in some contexts (e.g., [13]).
One key determinant of attractiveness is body morphology, and explorations of the link
between morphology and attractiveness go back at least as far as Leonardo da Vinci’s Vitruvian Man.
From the perspective of evolutionary biology, attractiveness judgments reflect the biological fitness
of the prospective mate (i.e., their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment), because a
high-fitness mate is likely to be better able to provide resources, care, and protection, to be less
likely to transmit harmful pathogens, and to pass on “good genes” to the offspring [14]. Because
some aspects of fitness correlate with morphological traits, numerous studies have investigated how
a variety of prominent anatomical features influence attractiveness, including face shape [15], body
fat percentage [3], and height [16]. In the present paper, we investigate a relatively unexplored but
potentially crucial aspect of morphology: limb proportions.
Previous studies of the link between limb proportions and attractiveness have focussed on
leg-to-body ratio (LBR), defined as the ratio of total leg length to total height. Two early papers
reported a preference for low LBRs [17,18], but these experiments used line-drawn figures with
anatomical distortions in the hands, feet, and crotch introduced through crude image-manipulation
techniques. Subsequent work has typically used silhouettes based on photographs and has found a
preference for average or above-average LBRs [19,20] (see also [21–23]). Some researchers have
suggested that silhouettes lack ecological validity and may not accurately represent human body
morphology [24,25], and more recent research has progressed to using naturalistic 3D-rendered CGI
figures [26,27]. In a study of Japanese participants, Kiire [27] examined a wide range of LBRs using
realistic rendered figures and, using a curve-fitting approach, found that the optimal attractiveness
was very close to the population mean; in a similar study, Versluys and Skylark [25] found that, for
heterosexual American women, the optimally-attractive LBR for rendered male figures was
approximately half a standard deviation above the population average. (These authors also found
that the effect of LBR was different for 3D-rendered images and silhouettes, confirming that studies
of silhouette figures should be treated with some caution.)
These findings have been explained in terms of the fitness associated with different LBRs.
“Averageness”, defined as the degree to which a trait approximates the mean of that trait in the
population [15], is believed to reflect genetic diversity which, in parts of the genome coding for
immunocompetence, reduces the chance of being targeted by locally specialised pathogens [28,29].
In addition, LBRs that are slightly above the mean are associated with high socioeconomic status,
good nutrition, and developmental stability [30], as well as biomechanical efficiency during
locomotion [31,32]. High LBRs are also linked with larger overall stature (because leg length is the
main contributor towards height increases beyond the average), which suggests that LBR can serve a
proxy for overall size [14]. In contrast, significant deviations from the average, in either direction, are
associated with poor health outcomes: short legs are linked to insulin resistance syndrome and type
2 diabetes [33,34], coronary heart disease [33,35,36], high blood pressure [37], and dementia
[38,39], while extremely high LBRs often indicate deleterious genetic conditions, such as Marfan
syndrome [40]. The observed preference for LBRs that are at or slightly above the population mean
therefore accords with the idea that these LBRs signal the fitness of the prospective mate.
The present research builds on these studies by investigating two aspects of limb
morphology that have not previously been studied: arm-to-body ratio (ABR) and intra-limb ratio (IR).
ABR is defined as the ratio of total arm length to total height. Although research is relatively
sparse, short arms have been associated with negative mental health outcomes, especially
Alzheimer’s disease/dementia [41–43]. They are also linked to developmental stressors, including
cold exposure, hypoxia, and malnutrition, as well as poor socioeconomic status [30,44,45], all of
which are typically maladaptive. Conversely, there is some evidence that longer arms improve
throwing ability [46], which is argued to have aided in ancestral activities including hunting and
interpersonal conflict [47], although the importance of ABR relative to other anthropometric traits is
unclear [48].
IR is defined as the ratio of the distal (i.e., lower) limb segment to the proximal (upper) limb
segment. Differences in the distal limb segment account for most of the variation in total limb length
[14], so IR might be used as a proxy for overall limb size (i.e., for LBR and ABR) which, as described
above, is linked to health. In addition, short distal limbs are associated with developmental stress
and socioeconomic deprivation [30,44,45,49]. There are competing explanations for these effects,
including the idea that shorter distal limbs represent an adaptation to the cold by reducing heat loss
[45], the idea that distal limbs are more susceptible to reduced blood flow [50], and the “thrifty
phenotype” hypothesis under which certain tissues are sacrificed to ensure that more vital organs
are preserved [30,51]. Whatever the cause, distal limbs are thought to be especially susceptible to
environmental challenge [44], and thus IR is likely to signal fitness.
Taken together, these results, coupled with the general principle that averageness signals
immunocompetence, suggest that, like for LBR, the optimally-attractive ABR and IR will be at or
slightly above the population means. However, to date no attempt has been made to explore how
these aspects of limb morphology affect attractiveness.
The present research consists of three related studies that address this gap in the literature
by examining the effects of LBR, ABR, and IR on the attractiveness of male figures to heterosexual
women. In Study 1, we manipulate all three limb variables in a factorial design. In Study 2, we
expand the set of tested values for LBR, ABR, and IR and examine each of the three variables
individually. In Study 3, we probe the effects of IR in more detail by examining the effect separately
for arms and legs. All three studies implement recent methodological improvements to the study of
limb proportions: the ecological validity of the stimuli is improved by using a validated
anthropometric database and selecting limb length increments that correspond to a certain number
of standard deviations above/below the population mean; stimulus realism is enhanced through the
use of sophisticated design software, although the figures are rendered in greyscale to minimize any
potential interactions between limb preferences and ethnic background; and a curve-fitting
approach is used to estimate both optimum limb proportions and the sensitivity to departures from
that optimum.
Study 1
Study 1 examined the effects of LBR, ABR, and IR, and whether these different limb
proportions interact to shape attractiveness. For each limb ratio, we tested values that were a given
number of standard deviations above/below the population mean. This approach has the advantage
that the chosen values relate directly to the frequency of particular proportions in the population; it
also ensures that the manipulation is comparable across the different ratios. Because this study is
the first to investigate the effects of ABR and IR, and because it uses a factorial design, we chose
values that were relatively extreme to maximise the chance of detecting an effect and to keep the
number of stimulus combinations manageable, while ensuring that the values were within the
population distribution. We therefore presented each participant with 25 figures obtained by
factorial combining 5 ABRs (-3, -2, 0, +2, and +3 SD from baseline) with 5 LBRs (again, -3, -2, 0, +2,
and +3 SD from baseline). Each participant was tested with one of three IRs (-3, 0, or +3 SD from
baseline); IR was varied between subjects to avoid overburdening participants, and only 3 IR values
were tested in order to limit the total required sample size. We varied IR within subjects, and used
more IR values, in Studies 2 and 3.
Methods
Participants. Participants in all studies were heterosexual women from the United States
who were recruited via Amazon’s Mechanical Turk, an online platform that approximates the US
population more closely than many convenience samples [52] and that produces data of comparable
quality to laboratory studies [53]. Participants were tested online (e.g., [25]), and the inclusion
criteria were as follows: female, heterosexual, aged 18 or over, who reported no problems with
viewing the experimental stimuli and whose IP address had not occurred earlier in the experiment or
experimental series (i.e., who had not previously participated in the present or closely-related
studies). In Study 1, the sample comprised 341 women aged 19 to 76 (M = 39.02, SD =12.78), 79.8%
of whom identified as White (i.e., White American or White Other), 8.5% as Black (i.e., Black/African
American or Black Other), 6.7% as Asian, and 5.0% as any other ethnicity. The sample size of the
present experiment gives more than 99% power to detect a modest effect , ( <U+F068> p = .05; previous
2
studies of limb proportions have found much larger effects than this) for all three variables (IR, LBR,
and ABR; here and throughout, power calculation was computed using GPower using default
assumptions regarding sphericity and correlation between repeated measures; [54]).
Stimuli. The stimuli were realistic CGI human male figures created using state-of-the-art
design software (Daz Studio 4.9: https://www.daz3d.com/daz_studio) with the Male Anatomy add-
on package. This software provides a default, anatomically-accurate model (“Michael 3”) with
skeletal dimensions that can be modified precisely to allow fine control over limb proportions. These
proportions were selected using a database of male participants derived from the 1988 US Army
Anthropometry Survey (ANSUR; [55]), which provides 132 standard anthropometric measurements
from approximately 9000 United States military personnel. Since there are no definitive rules in
anthropometry regarding how limb lengths are defined, appropriate measurements were selected
from the database based on design practicality and frequency of use in the literature.
Anatomical measurements. Total leg length was measured as the height to the trochanter
landmark on the hip minus ankle height, which was calculated as the distance from the floor to the
lateral malleolus landmark on the ankle. Anatomical leg length is defined as the length of the tibia
plus femur [14], so our approach is a likely to give a closer approximation of anatomical leg length
than does the more common measurement of distance from base of foot to the perineum (crotch)
seen in the literature (e.g., [20,27]). The LBR was calculated by dividing leg length by total height
(measured from the base of the heel to the top of the head). The mean LBR was 0.491 with a
standard deviation of 0.015.
Total arm length was calculated as the distance from the acromial process on the shoulder to
the radial styloid process on the wrist. This measurement corresponds closely to arm length as defined
in terms of its constituent long bones and is more anatomically accurate than the common ‘wingspan’
measurement, which measures the distance between the fingertips of the outstretched arms [56],
offering a convenient but relatively crude approximation of arm length that includes both bi-acromial
breadth (shoulder width) and the length of the hands. The ABR was calculated by dividing arm length
by total height. The mean ABR was 0.349 with a standard deviation of 0.010.
Intra-limb ratio was calculated by dividing the lower segment of each limb by the upper
segment. The lower leg was measured as popliteal height minus ankle height. Of the measurements
in the database, this was the closest to anatomical averages for the lower leg established by measuring
disarticulated human bones. The upper leg was calculated as total leg length minus lower leg length.
The lower arm length was measured as the distance from the medial epicondyle on the elbow to the
styloid process on the wrist, while the upper arm was measured as the distance between the acromial
process on the shoulder and the distal end of the humerus, marked by the medial epicondyle. Both
measurements are widely used in traditional anthropometry. The mean IR for the legs was 0.743 (SD
= 0.033) for the legs and 0.817 (SD = 0.032) for the arms.
Stimulus construction. A baseline figure was created using the proportions of the original
model provided in Daz Studio (“Michael 3”), with nominal height set at the database male average of
175 cm. Limb proportions were set at the database averages of 0.491 for LBR, 0.349 for ABR, 0.743
for leg IR, and 0.817 for arm IR. Additional stimuli were created with LBRs and ABRs that were +/- 2
or 3 SD from the mean and IRs that were +/- 3 SD from the mean. These were combined in a full-
factorial design to produce a total of 75 unique stimuli. IR was treated as a single variable with
concomitant changes in the legs and arms (e.g., a value of IR +1 means that both the leg IR and the
arm IR were 1 SD above their respective means). The stimulus values are listed in Table 1. The faces
were pixelated using Lunapic (https://www196.lunapic.com/editor/) [25]; pixilation was applied
separately for each figure, resulting in some (non-systematic) variation between stimuli. Images
were saved as jpeg files; example stimuli are shown in Figure 1.
Design and Procedure. The study had a 5 (LBR) x 5 (ABR) x 3 (IR) design. Each participant was
assigned randomly to one IR group (-3 SD, 0 SD, or +3 SD from the population mean), which was a
between-subject factor (N-3SD = 112; N0SD = 117; N+3SD = 112); participants judged all combinations of
LBR and ABR for their given IR, for a total of 25 figures.
The first page of the task asked the participant’s gender; those who responded “male” were
directed away from the survey. After providing informed consent, participants were notified that
they would be asked to judge the attractiveness of male figures. They were told that some of the
figures were similar to one another but that they were all slightly different, that there were no right
or wrong answers, and that they should answer honestly. Each figure was presented on a separate
webpage and participants rated its attractiveness on a scale from 1 (“not at all”) to 7 (“very much
so”). Stimulus order was randomized. At the end of the study, participants reported demographic
information: ethnic origin (White American; White other; Black/African American; Black other;
Hispanic; Asian; Native American; Pacific Islander; Other); sexuality (Straight or heterosexual; Gay or
lesbian; Bisexual; Other; Prefer not to say); and age (indicating with a slider ranging from 0-100).
Results and Discussion
The mean attractiveness ratings are plotted in the left column of Figure 2. There was little
effect of variation in the ABR, F(4,1352) = 1.89, p = .110, <U+F068> p = .006. Judgments did depend on the IR,
2
although the effect was not especially strong, F(2, 338) = 3.35, p= .036, <U+F068> p = .019; in contrast, there
2
was a pronounced effect of LBR, F(2.82, 952.74) = 383.11, p<.001, <U+F068> p = .531 (here and elsewhere, a
2
Huynh-Feldt correction was applied because of violations of sphericity [57]). The effects of LBR did
not depend on ABR, F(15.50, 5237.87) = 1.13, p = .323, <U+F068> p = .003, or IR, F(5.64, 952.74) = 0.38, p =
2
.880, <U+F068> p = .002; similarly, the effects of ABR were not modulated by IR, F(8,1352) = 1.33, p = .223,
2
<U+F068> p2 = .008, and there was no three-way interaction F(30.99, 5237.87) = 1.19, p = .216, <U+F068> p2 =.007.
Following up the main effects of IR and LBR, post-hoc pairwise comparisons indicated that
although the baseline IR was more attractive than the -3 condition, this difference did not survive
Bonferroni correction (adjusted p = .051); the +3 condition did not differ from either the baseline
condition (adjusted p = .132) or the -3 condition (adjusted p = 1.000). For LBR, all conditions were
different from one another (adjusted ps <.001) apart from the -2 and +3 conditions (adjusted p =
1.000).
The relationship between limb ratio and attractiveness has previously been described well
by a quadratic curve (e.g., [25]). We must be cautious about applying this approach here because we
only tested a small number of ratios, but it is nonetheless instructive to fit quadratic regression
curves of the form J <U+F03D> B0 <U+F02B> B1 Ratio <U+F02B>B2 Ratio
2
to the mean judgments for each condition. The
blue lines in Figure 2 show the resulting curves. For IR, there are only 3 data points so the curve fits
perfectly. For the ABR, the curve is essentially flat, with linear and quadratic terms that are very
close to zero, consistent with the results of the ANOVA: B0 = 3.96, CI95% = [3.91, 4.02], p <.001; B1 = -
0.01, CI95% = [-0.02, 0.01], p = .209; B2 =-0.01, CI95% = [-0.02, 0.00], p = .082; overall model F(2,2) =
7.04, p = .124, R2adj = 0.75. For the LBR, there is a pronounced curvature to the judgment function,
with a peak that is somewhat above the baseline B0 = 4.90, CI95% = [4.56,5.23], p <.001; B1 = 0.19,
CI95% = [0.11, 0.27], p = .010; B2 = -0.19, CI95% = [-0.24, -0.13], p = .004; overall model F(2,2) = 162.8,
p = .006, R2adj = 0.99. Differentiating and rearranging, the maximum attractiveness occurs when Ratio
= 0.50, that is, when the LBR is half a standard deviation above the population mean, which is
virtually identical to the findings of Versluys and Skylark [25].
In short, Study 1 replicated previous findings that attractiveness is influenced by LBR, with an
optimum that is slightly above the population average. However, we found no effect of ABR and only
a small effect of IR, and no indication that any of the three ratios modulated one another’s effects.
Study 2 was conducted in order to expand on these findings.
Study 2
The number of LBR, ABR, and IR values used in Study 1 was constrained by the factorial
design. Having found no indication of interactions between the effects of the three ratios, Study 2
was designed to provide a more thorough investigation of the main effect of each ratio.
Correspondingly, participants were randomly assigned to judge male figures that differed either in
LRB, ABR, or IR, and saw figures that were -3, -2, -1, 0, +1, +2, or +3 SD from the mean.
Methods
Participants. The sample comprised 253 heterosexual women aged 20-71 (M=34.48,
SD=9.90); ethnicities: White (83.0%); Black (7.5%); Asian (4.7%); all others (4.7%).
Stimuli. The stimuli were constructed as before. For each ratio (LBR, ABR, and IR), figures
were constructed that were -3, -2, -1, 0, +1, +2, or +3 SD from the baseline. As for Study 1, the
manipulation of IR was conducted for both arms and legs simultaneously.
Design and Procedure. The study had a 7 (ratio) x 3 (limb variable) design in which
participants were assigned randomly to either the LBR (N = 83), ABR (N = 83), or IR (N = 87) groups,
viewing a total of 7 stimuli. These samples gave 97% power to detect a small effect ( <U+F068> p = .02). The
2
procedure was the same as for Study 1.
Results and Discussion
The mean judgments are plotted in the right column of Figure 2. There was no effect of ABR
on attractiveness judgments, F(5.60,459.49) = 0.34, p = .904, <U+F068> p = .004. However, as for Study 1
2
there was an effect of IR, F(6,516) = 2.86, p = .009, <U+F068> p = .032, and of LBR, F(5.01, 410.51) = 35.27, p
2
<.001, <U+F068> p = .301. A 2 (limb type: arms vs legs) x 7 (ratio) mixed ANOVA revealed a substantial
2
interaction, F(5.41, 886.70) = 24.55, p<.001, <U+F068> p = .130, confirming that the effect of changes in leg
2
length was different from the effect of changes in arm length. Likewise, the effect of changing the IR
was different from the effects of changes in LBR F(5.60, 941.45) = 17.92, p<.001, <U+F068> p2 = .096, and ABR,
F(6,1008) = 2.41, p = .026, <U+F068> p2 = .014. Taken together, these results demonstrate a pronounced
effect of changes in LBR, a weaker effect of changes in IR, and no effect of changes in ABR.
The blue lines in Figure 2 show the best-fitting quadratic curves, computed as for Study 1.
For the IR judgments, the quadratic curve provides a poor description of the data, R2adj = -0.013,
F(2,4) = 0.96, p = .456; B0 = 4.80, CI95% = [4.56, 5.03], p <.001; B1 = 0.02, CI95% = [-0.06, 0.09], p =
.613; B2 = -0.02, CI95% = [-0.06, 0.02], p = .272. Inspection of Figure 2 suggests that the effect of IR
may be better described as a sharp peak at the baseline ratio, with ratios that are more than one SD
either side being judged less attractive and similar to one another, although the only post-hoc
comparison that survived Bonferroni correction was the difference between the baseline and -2 SD
conditions (adjusted p = .021; all other adjusted ps >.10).
As is clear from inspection and from the ANOVA, the curve is flat for the ABR judgments, R2adj
= .15, F(2,4) = 1.53, p = .321: B0 = 4.77, CI = [4.70,4.84], p <.001; B1 = -0.00, CI = [-0.03, 0.02], p =
.889; B2 = 0.01, CI = [-0.01, 0.02], p = .156.
For LBR, the mean judgments are well-described by a quadratic curve, R2adj = .88, F(2,4) =
22.64, p = .007, B0 = 5.10, CI = [4.72, 5.48], p <.001; B1 = 0.11, CI = [-0.01, 0.23], p = .071; B2 = -0.16,
CI = [-0.23,-0.09], p = .003. From the coefficients, the estimated optimum LBR is 0.34 SD above the
baseline – similar to the value of 0.50 found in Study 1. Using the bootstrapping approach described
by Versluys and Skylark [25], the 95% percentile-based confidence interval for the optimum LBR was
[0.165, 0.520], confirming that the optimally-attractive leg-length is above the baseline. (The bias-
corrected accelerated confidence interval is virtually identical.)
Study 3
Studies 1 and 2 both found a strong effect of LBR and no effect of ABR. They also found a
weak effect of IR, when IR was manipulated for both limbs simultaneously (such that, for example, a
high IR meant relatively long distal portions of both arms and legs). In Study 3, we probed the effect
of IR in more detail by separately manipulating the IR of arms and legs.
4.1. Methods
Participants. The sample comprised 193 heterosexual women aged 20-74 (M=36.49,
SD=11.68); ethnicities: White (73.1%); Black (11.4%); Asian (5.2%); all others (10.4%).
Stimuli. The stimuli were constructed as for Studies 1 and 2. Separately for both arms and
legs, we constructed stimuli with IRs that were -3, -2, -1, 0, +1, +2, and +3 SD from the baseline.
Design and Procedure. The study had a 7 (IR) x 2 (limb) design; each participant was
assigned randomly to one limb condition (arms, N = 96; legs, N = 97), giving 99% power to detect an
effect of <U+F068> p = .03 (the size found in Study 2). Each participant judged the 7 IR values, following the
2
same procedure as for Studies 1 and 2.
Results and Discussion
The mean judgments are plotted in Figure 3; there is very little indication of a meaningful
effect of IR on attractiveness judgments, both for the condition where IR was varied for arms and
where it was varied for legs. This impression was supported by a 2x7 mixed ANOVA. As one would
expect, there was no main effect of limb (that is, no difference in the overall attractiveness ratings
for figures in which the IR was varied for legs rather than for arms), F(1, 191) = 0.96, p = .330, <U+F068> p =
2
.005). More importantly, there was no main effect of IR, F(6, 1146) = 0.874, p = .513, <U+F068> p = .005, and
2
no interaction between IR and limb, F(6, 1146) = 0.98, p= .437, <U+F068> p = .005.
2
The blue lines in Figure 3 show the best-fitting quadrative curves through the mean
judgments for each condition. Consistent with the ANOVA, the curve was flat for arms, R2adj = -.24,
F(2,4) = 0.42, p = .683, B0 = 5.01, CI = [4.89,5.14], p <.001; B1 = -0.00, CI = [-0.04, 0.04], p = .981; B2 =
-0.01, CI = [-0.03, 0.02], p = .412. The same was true for legs, R2adj = -0.15, F(2,4) = 0.60, p = 0.591,
B0 = 5.12, CI = [4.96,5.28], p <.001; B1 = 0.02, CI = [-0.03, 0.07], p = .410; B2 = -0.01, CI = [-0.04,
0.02], p = .582.
In short, when IR is manipulated for each limb separately, there is no indication that it
affects attractiveness.
General Discussion
Several important findings emerge from these studies. First, there is a clear preference for
LBRs that are approximately 0.3-0.5 SDs above the mean, with proportions becoming less appealing
as they deviate from this point. This replicates the findings of Versluys and Skylark [25] and is similar
to the preference for male LBRs that were 5% greater than baseline reported by Sorokowski and
Pawlowski [20], and is consistent with the idea that leg-length preferences reflect a trade-off
between the advantages of averageness, namely genetic diversity and associated
immunocompetence, and those deriving from above-average size. In particular, relatively long legs
are indicative of greater overall size, high socioeconomic status, and biomechanical efficiency. In
contrast, the only other study to have used 3D-rendered figures found that the average was
optimally attractive [27]. The difference between these two sets of results may reflect small
differences in stimulus format, which have been shown to moderate the effects of morphology
[25,58]. They could also be caused by variation in participant characteristics in terms of sex, age,
ethnicity, or, more importantly, cultural differences: the present study was conducted with a sample
of heterosexual females from the United States, whereas Kiire [27] used a combination of male and
female undergraduates from Japan, a country with standards of attractiveness and anthropometry
that are considerably different from those of most Western countries.
Second, we found no evidence that arm length influences attractiveness judgements:
despite being highly powered, neither Study 1 nor Study 2 found evidence of a meaningful effect of
ABR, and Study 2 confirmed that the effect of ABR was significantly less than that of LBR. It is
important to note that our stimuli were chosen to be a given number of SDs below/above the
population mean; correspondingly the manipulation of LBR and ABR was functionally equivalent (i.e.,
ceterus paribus, there is equal probability of a female encountering a prospective mate with each of
the tested morphologies). Thus, our results suggest that arm length is a relatively unimportant
contributor to male attractiveness for the US population.
This finding presents a theoretical challenge, because many of the arguments that have
been developed to account for effects of leg length should also apply to arms. In particular, the
fitness benefits of averageness (as a signal of immunocompetence) and of above-average size (as a
signal of reserve capacity) are both potentially applicable to ABR. A straightforward explanation is
that the changes in ABR were less perceptually salient or detectable than the changes in LBR: the
population variance is greater for legs than for arms, so the LBR stimuli differed more than the ABR
stimuli (e.g., the maximal difference in ABR values in Study 2 was 0.063, whereas for LBRs it was
0.088; Table 1). Another, not necessarily exclusive, possibility is that ABR may be a less meaningful
signal of fitness. The relatively low variability in ABR may suggest that this aspect of morphology is
subject to tighter constraints than leg-length, limiting its role in sexual selection. With this in mind, it
is notable that although arm length has been associated with a range of fitness indicators such as
socioeconomic status and cognitive decline, the evidence is weaker than for LBR. A further possibility
is that the relative contributions to attractiveness of LBR and ABR reflect transitory/cultural
influences, since many factors other than biological fitness affect morphological preferences.
Whatever its cause, the indifference of our participants to changes in ABR suggest that this aspect of
morphology is not currently an important determinant of male reproductive success for this
population.
The third contribution of our work is that it provides the first evidence that attractiveness is
influenced by the ratio of the lower-to-upper limb segments: we found a slight preference for IRs
that approximate the population average, with relatively low and high ratios being less appealing.
This effect emerged in Studies 1 and 2, and is consistent with prior theoretical and empirical work
suggesting that either averageness signals fitness (e.g., [59]). However, the effect was relatively
weak and, perhaps for this reason, was not well-described by a quadratic curve; rather, there was a
sharp peak at the mean and relative insensitivity to departures either side. Indeed, when IR was
varied for just one limb type (Study 3), there was no longer any effect at all, despite the study having
99% power to detect an effect like that in Study 2, which probably reflects the fact that participants
found it more difficult to detect IR variation in only a single limb than in both limbs together. This is
especially likely given the relatively muscular physiques of the stimuli, which might have diverted
attention away from changes in IR; more generally, it is clear from Figure 1 that the changes in IR
are, like the change in ABR, hard to detect – despite spanning a range from the lowest 0.1% of the
population to the highest 0.1%. Thus, the slight preference for average IR broadly accords with the
negative fitness correlates of short distal limbs [30,44,45,49], but, like for arm length, our data
suggest that the ratio of the lower-to-upper-limb segments is not taken as a very important signal of
fitness and has limited effect on mate choice.
We have focused on the preferences of heterosexual women for male figures; clearly, it will
be important to generalize our approach to test the preferences of male judges, and to examine
preferences for female figures (e.g., [20,27]). Future work should also test whether our findings
generalize across changes in cultural, social, and design conditions, which have been shown to
modulate preferences for other aspects of morphology (e.g., [25,60]). The current research, along
with other recent work [25,27], employed several methodological innovations that will be useful in
pursuing these future directions. In particular, the use of advanced CGI software and reliable
anthropometric data, the selection of stimuli based on population standard deviations, and a curve-
fitting approach to data analysis, will all facilitate the development of precise, valid, and comparable
measures of the consequences of limb variation in different populations and under different
circumstances. Nonetheless, our studies have several limitations. We used a single “base” body from
the modelling software, and this physique is in some respects atypical (e.g., the figure is very lean
and probably more attractively proportioned than the average man). Likewise, although we used an
anthropological database to select limb proportions, the soldiers measured for this database are
likely to differ from the overall population in some respects because of the fitness requirements for
military service. Clearly, there is scope for future studies to use improved measurement data and a
wider variety of base figures, to test the generality of the effects of limb proportions.
Taken together, our results add to the growing evidence that limb variation influences
aspects of human wellbeing ranging from mate choice to employment prospects to medical
outcomes, and also offer insights into the role of limb proportions in evolutionary history. In
particular, the present data suggest that sexual selection might have acted (or be acting) differently
on the arms and legs, with only the latter playing an important role in determining sexual selection.
This is consistent with recent work showing that the genetic regulation of the front and hind limb
diverged around the time of the Last Common Ancestor, which would have allowed for the
possibility of differential selection pressures [61]. The present studies suggest that the behavioural
and psychological implications of the genetic decoupling of the front and hind limb warrant further
investigation.
Ethics statement
Ethical approval was granted by the University of Cambridge Biological Anthropology Graduate
Education Committee. Participants gave informed consent.
Data accessibility
The data reported in this paper are included as supplementary material.
Competing interests
The authors have no competing interests.
Authors’ contributions
TV and RF conceived the studies. TV and WS designed the studies; TV prepared the stimuli and
collected the data; TV and WS analysed the data; TV, RF, and WS wrote the paper. All authors gave
final approval for publication.
Acknowledgements
N/A
Funding statement
N/A
References
1. Feingold A. 1992 Good-looking people are not what we think. Psychol. Bull. 111, 304–341.
(doi:10.1037/0033-2909.111.2.304)
2. Talamas SN, Mavor KI, Perrett DI. 2016 Blinded by beauty: Attractiveness bias and accurate
perceptions of academic performance. PLoS One 11, e0148284 1-18.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0148284)
3. Brierley ME, Brooks KR, Mond J, Stevenson RJ, Stephen ID. 2016 The body and the beautiful:
Health, attractiveness and body composition in men’s and women’s bodies. PLoS One 11,
e0156722 1-16. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0156722)
4. Dion K, Berscheid E, Walster E. 1972 What is beautiful is good. J. Pers. Soc. Psychol. 24, 285–
290. (doi:10.1037/h0033731)
5. Benzeval M, Green MJ, Macintyre S. 2013 Does perceived physical attractiveness in
adolescence predict better socioeconomic position in adulthood? Evidence from 20 years of
follow up in a population cohort study. PLoS One 8, e63975 1-7.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0063975)
6. Ruffle BJ, Shtudiner Z. 2015 Are good-looking people more employable? Manage. Sci. 61,
1760–1776. (doi:10.1287/mnsc.2014.1927)
7. Castillo M. 2013 What’s up with the cover ? The benefits of beauty. Am. J. Neuroradiol. 34, 1–
4.
8. Zebrowitz LA, Mcdonald SM. 1991 The impact of litigants’ babyfacedness and attractiveness
on adjudications in small claims courts. Law Hum. Behav. 15, 603–623.
9. Olivola CY, Todorov A. 2010 Elected in 100 milliseconds: Appearance-based trait inferences
and voting. J. Nonverbal Behav. 34, 83–110. (doi:10.1007/s10919-009-0082-1)
10. Palmer CL, Peterson RD. 2015 Halo effects and the attractiveness premium in perceptions of
political expertise. Am. Polit. Res. (doi:10.1177/1532673X15600517)
11. Fales MR, Frederick DA, Garcia JR, Gildersleeve KA, Haselton MG, Fisher HE. 2016 Mating
markets and bargaining hands: Mate preferences for attractiveness and resources in two
national U.S. studies. Pers. Individ. Dif. 88, 78–87. (doi:10.1016/j.paid.2015.08.041)
12. Jokela M. 2009 Physical attractiveness and reproductive success in humans: evidence from
the late 20th century United States. Evol. Hum. Behav. 30, 342–350.
(doi:10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2009.03.006)
13. Gheorghiu AI, Callan MJ, Skylark WJ. 2017 Facial appearance affects science communication.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 114, 5970–5975. (doi:10.1073/pnas.1620542114)
14. Bogin B, Varela-Silva MI. 2010 Leg length, body proportion, and health: A review with a note
on beauty. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 7, 1047–1075. (doi:10.3390/ijerph7031047)
15. Little AC, Jones BC, DeBruine LM. 2011 Facial attractiveness: evolutionary based research.
Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 366, 1638–1659. (doi:10.1098/rstb.2010.0404)
16. Sear R, Marlowe FW. 2009 How universal are human mate choices ? Size does not matter
when Hadza foragers are choosing a mate. Biol. Lett. 5, 606–609.
(doi:10.1098/rsbl.2009.0342)
17. Swami V, Einon D, Furnham A. 2006 The leg-to-body ratio as a human aesthetic criterion.
Body Image 3, 317–323. (doi:10.1016/j.bodyim.2006.08.003)
18. Swami V, Einon D, Furnham A. 2007 Cultural significance of leg-to-body ratio preferences?
Evidence from Britain and rural Malaysia. Asian J. Soc. Psychol. 10, 265–269.
(doi:10.1111/j.1467-839X.2007.00235.x)
19. Sorokowski P et al. 2011 Attractiveness of leg length: Report from 27 nations. J. Cross. Cult.
Psychol. 42, 131–139. (doi:10.1177/0022022110392229)
20. Sorokowski P, Pawlowski B. 2008 Adaptive preferences for leg length in a potential partner.
Evol. Hum. Behav. 29, 86–91. (doi:10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2007.09.002)
21. Marco Bertamini, Kate M. Bennett. 2009 The effect of leg length on perceived attractiveness
of simplified stimuli. J. Soc. Evol. Cult. Psychol. 3, 233–250.
22. Fan J, Dai W, Liu F, Wu J. 2005 Visual perception of male body attractiveness. Proc. R. Soc. B
272, 219–26. (doi:10.1098/rspb.2004.2922)
23. Sabiniewicz A, Sorokowska A, Oleszkiewicz A, Sorokowski P. 2015 Developmental study on
Leg-to-Body ratio preferences. Coll. Antropol. 39, 529–534.
24. Rilling JK, Kaufman TL, Smith EO, Patel R, Worthman CM. 2009 Abdominal depth and waist
circumference as influential determinants of human female attractiveness. Evol. Hum. Behav.
30, 21–31. (doi:10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2008.08.007)
25. Versluys TMM, Skylark WJ. 2017 The effect of leg-to-body ratio on male attractiveness
depends on the ecological validity of the figures. R. Soc. Open Sci. 4, 170399 1-11.
(doi:10.1098/rsos.170399)
26. Frederick DA, Hadji-Michael M, Furnham A, Swami V. 2010 The influence of leg-to-body ratio
(LBR) on judgments of female physical attractiveness: Assessments of computer-generated
images varying in LBR. Body Image 7, 51–55. (doi:10.1016/j.bodyim.2009.09.001)
27. Kiire S. 2016 Effect of Leg-to-Body ratio on body shape attractiveness. Arch. Sex. Behav. 45,
901–910. (doi:10.1007/s10508-015-0635-9)
28. Lie HC, Rhodes G, Simmons LW. 2008 Genetic diversity revealed in human faces. Evolution (N.
Y). 62, 2473–2486. (doi:10.1111/j.1558-5646.2008.00478.x)
29. Roberts SC, Little AC, Gosling LM, Perrett DI, Carter V, Jones BC, Penton-Voak I, Petrie M.
2005 MHC-heterozygosity and human facial attractiveness. Evol. Hum. Behav. 26, 213–226.
(doi:10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2004.09.002)
30. Pomeroy E, Stock JT, Stanojevic S, Miranda JJ, Cole TJ, Wells JCK. 2012 Trade-offs in relative
limb length among Peruvian children: Extending the thrifty phenotype hypothesis to limb
proportions. PLoS One 7, e51795 1-10. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0051795)
31. Steudel-Numbers KL, Tilkens MJ. 2004 The effect of lower limb length on the energetic cost of
locomotion: implications for fossil hominins. J. Hum. Evol. 47, 95–109.
(doi:10.1016/j.jhevol.2004.06.002)
32. Steudel-Numbers KL. 2006 Energetics in Homo erectus and other early hominins : The
consequences of increased lower-limb length. J. Hum. Evol. 51, 445–453.
(doi:10.1016/j.jhevol.2006.05.001)
33. Davey Smith G, Greenwood R, Gunnell D, Sweetnam P, Yarnell J, Elwood P. 2001 Leg length,
insulin resistance, and coronary heart disease risk: The Caerphilly Study. J. Epidemiol.
Community Health 55, 867–72. (doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/jech.55.12.867)
34. Weitzman S, Wang CH, Pankow JS, Schmidt MI, Brancati FL. 2010 Are measures of height and
leg length related to incident diabetes mellitus? The ARIC (Atherosclerosis Risk in
Communities) study. Acta Diabetol. 47, 237–242. (doi:10.1007/s00592-009-0145-0)
35. Gunnell D, Whitley E, Upton MN, McConnachie A, Smith GD, Watt GCM. 2003 Associations of
height, leg length, and lung function with cardiovascular risk factors in the Midspan Family
Study. J. Epidemiol. Community Health 57, 141–6. (doi:10.1136/jech.57.2.141)
36. Lawlor D, Taylor M, Davey Smith G, Gunnell D, Ebrahim S. 2004 Associations of components
of adult height with coronary heart disease in postmenopausal women: The British women’s
heart and health study. Heart 90, 745–749. (doi:10.1136/hrt.2003.019950)
37. Montagnese C, Nutile T, Marphatia AA, Grijalva-eternod CS, Siervo M. 2014 Body
composition, leg length and blood pressure in a rural Italian population: A test of the
capacity-load model. Nutr. Metab. Cardiovasc. Dis. 24, 1204–1212.
(doi:10.1016/j.numecd.2014.05.006)
38. Prince M et al. 2017 Leg length, skull circumference, and the prevalence of dementia in low
and middle income countries: a 10/66 population-based cross sectional survey. Int.
Psychogeriatrics 23, 202–213. (doi:10.1017/S1041610210001274)
39. Scazufca M, Menezes PR, Araya R, Rienzo VD Di, Almeida OP, Gunnell D, Lawlor DA. 2008 Risk
factors across the life course and dementia in a Brazilian population: results from the Sao
Paulo Ageing & Health Study (SPAH). Int. J. Epidemiol. 37, 879–890. (doi:10.1093/ije/dyn125)
40. Pyeritz RE. 2000 The Marfan syndrome. Annu. Rev. Med. 51, 481–510.
41. Huang TL, Carlson MC, Fitzpatrick AL, Kuller LH, Fried LP, Zandi PP. 2008 Knee height and arm
span: A reflection of early life environment and risk of dementia. Neurology 70, 1818–1826.
(doi:10.1212/01.wnl.0000311444.20490.98)
42. Jeong SK, Kim JM, Kweon SS, Shin MH, Seo MW, Kim YH. 2005 Does arm length indicate
cognitive and functional reserve? Int. J. Geriatr. Psychiatry 20, 406–412.
(doi:10.1002/gps.1295)
43. Kim J, Stewart R, Shin I, Yoon J. 2003 Limb length and dementia in an older Korean
population. J. Neurol. Neurosurg. Psychiatry 74, 427–432. (doi:10.1136/jnnp.74.4.427)
44. Pomeroy E, Stock JT, Stanojevic S, Miranda J, Cole TJ, Wells JCK. 2013 Associations between
arterial oxygen saturation, body size and limb measurements among high-altitude Andean
children. Am. J. Hum. Biol. 25, 629–636. (doi:10.1002/ajhb.22422)
45. Weinstein KJ. 2005 Body proportions in ancient Andeans from high and low altitudes. Am. J.
Phys. Anthropol. 128, 569–585.
46. Zapartidis I, Palamas A, Papa M, Tsakalou L, Kotsampouikiou Z. 2016 Relationship among
anthropometric characteristics, handgrip strength and throwing velocity in adolescent
handball players. J. Phys. Educ. Sport. Manag. 3, 127–139. (doi:10.15640/jpesm.v3n1a9)
47. Roach NT, Venkadesan M, Rainbow MJ, Lieberman DE. 2013 Elastic energy storage in the
shoulder and the evolution of high-speed throwing in Homo. Nature 498, 483–486.
(doi:10.1038/nature12267)
48. Debanne T, Laffaye G. 2011 Predicting the throwing velocity of the ball in handball with
anthropometric variables and isotonic tests. J. Sports Sci. 29, 705–713.
49. Azcorra H, Rodríguez L, Varela-Silva M, Banik SD, Dickinson F. 2015 Intergenerational changes
in knee height among Maya mothers and their adult daughters from Merida, Mexico. Am. J.
Hum. Biol. 27, 792–797. (doi:10.1002/ajhb.22752)
50. Lampl M, Kuzawa CW, Jeanty P. 2003 Prenatal smoke exposure alters growth in limb
proportions and head shape in the midgestation human fetus. Am. J. Hum. Biol. 15, 533–546.
(doi:10.1002/ajhb.10140)
51. Jantz LM, Jantz RL. 1999 Secular changes in long bone length and proportion in the United
States, 1800-1970. Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 110, 57–67.
52. Berinsky AJ, Huber GA, Lenz GS. 2012 Evaluating online labor markets for experimental
research: Amazon.com’s Mechanical Turk. Polit. Anal. 20, 351–368.
(doi:10.1093/pan/mpr057)
53. Buhrmester M, Kwang T, Gosling SD. 2011 Amazon’s Mechanical Turk: A new source of
inexpensive, yet high-quality, data? Perspect. Psychol. Sci. 6, 3–5.
(doi:10.1177/1745691610393980)
54. Faul F, Erdfelder E, Lang A-G, Buchner A. 2007 G*Power 3: A flexible statistical power analysis
program for the social, behavioral, and biomedical sciences. Behav. Res. Methods 39, 175–
191.
55. Gordon CC, Churchill T, Clauser CE, Mcconville JT, Tebbetts I, Walker RA. 1989 1988
Anthropometric Survey of U.S. Army Personnel: Methods and Summary Statistics. Tech. Rep.
NATICK/TR-89/044.
56. Cameron N. 2013 Essential anthropometry: Baseline anthropometric methods for human
biologists in laboratory and field situations. Am. J. Hum. Biol. 25, 291–299.
(doi:10.1002/ajhb.22388)
57. Huynh H, Feldt LS. 1976 Estimation of the Box correction for degrees of freedom from sample
data in randomized block and split-plot designs. J. Educ. Stat. 1, 69–82.
58. Koscinski K. 2014 Assessment of waist-to-hip ratio attractiveness in women: An
anthropometric analysis of digital silhouettes. Arch. Sex. Behav. 43, 989–997.
(doi:10.1007/s10508-013-0166-1)
59. Penn DJ, Damjanovich K, Potts WK. 2002 MHC heterozygosity confers a selective advantage
against multiple-strain infections. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 99, 11260–11264.
(doi:10.1073/pnas.162006499)
60. Sorokowski P, Koscinski K, Sorokowska A, Huanca T. 2014 Preference for women’s body mass
and waist-to-hip ratio in Tsimane’ men of the Bolivian Amazon: Biological and cultural
determinants. PLoS One 9, e105468 1-9. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0105468)
61. Young NM, Wagner GP, Hallgrímsson B. 2009 Development and the evolvability of human
limbs. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 107, 3400–3405. (doi:10.1073/pnas.0911856107)
62. Morey RD. 2008 Confidence intervals from normalized data: A correction to Cousineau
(2005). Tutor. Quant. Methods Psychol. 4, 61–64.
Table 1: Tested values of LBR, ABR, and IR
Stimulus LBR ABR IR (legs) IR (arms)
-3 SD 0.447 0.317 0.644 0.721
-2 SD 0.462 0.328 0.677 0.753
-1 SD 0.477 0.339 0.710 0.785
0 0.491 0.349 0.743 0.817
+1 SD 0.506 0.359 0.776 0.851
+2 SD 0.521 0.370 0.809 0.882
+3 SD 0.535 0.380 0.841 0.914
Figure 1. Example stimuli from Studies 1 and 2. From left to right, each row shows figures that are -3,
-2, -1, 0, +1, 2, and +3 from the population mean (baseline). The top row shows variation in the ABR;
the middle row shows variation in the LBR; the bottom row shows variation in the IR (with changes
for both arms and legs).
Figure 2. Results of Studies 1 and 2. The plotted points show the mean attractiveness rating for each
condition; error bars show 95% confidence intervals, computed for a within-subject design where
appropriate [62]. The blue lines show the best-fitting quadratic curves.
Figure 3. Results of Study 3. The left panel shows the results when the intra-limb ratio was varied for
arms; the right panel shows the results when it was varied for legs. The plotted points show the
mean attractiveness rating for each condition; error bars show 95% confidence intervals, computed
for a within-subject design [62]. The blue lines show the best-fitting quadratic curves.
Society Open
