Celebrating 30 years of science from the James Clerk
Maxwell Telescope
Ian Robson, Wayne S. Holland and Per Friberg
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170754.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170754
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170754.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Walter Gear)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a useful and entertaining historical perspective on the success of the JCMT as observatory
at its 30th anniversary. It is well written and well laid out. The highlights selected are perhaps
somewhat inevitably biased towards the interests of the authors but nonetheless represent a
reasonably somplete survey and overview. As such I am happy to recommend publication
subject to minor corrects as follows: In the introduction they should perhaps tone down the self-
congratulation a bit, particularly in the 2nd paragraph.Also SCUBA arrived in 1996 not 1997, this
is clearly a typo as they give the correct date later on.In section 2 they refer to "most-cited" and
"next most cited" papers, it might be interesting to quote a number at this point to give the reader
some idea of the scale. "Most-cited" after all could still be relatively low on an absolute scale,
whereas in reality we are presumably talking about well over 1000 cites. When discussing the
success of the Hughes et al SCUBA paper on the HDF they should perhaps mention that it was a
fortuitous coincidence that the first winter SCUBA was operating coincided with the strongest El
Nino even for many years, and one that was not repeated until the winter of 2016/17, i.e. 30 years
later. In section 5 they mention PI instruments by surname of the PI, they should give the PI full
name and institution. Also when discussing the EHT they fail to mention that these were VLBI
observations.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Richard Hills)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
As far as I am concerned all my comments may be passed to the authors, and I suppose that is the
idea with open peer review, but I leave it to the editor to decide whether any censorship of my
comments would be a good idea. (Appendix A)
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is a truly monumental paper, written by 3 of the main contributors to the success of this
telescope over the last 3 decades. The scope and breadth of the science is tremendous. No
significant discovery of the telescope has been omitted. This is history written by the people who
made it happen. It is a genuine page-turner. It is a story that needs to be told, of how the
ingenuity of the instrumentation, coupled to the unique attributes of the telescope, and its
location, led to generation after generation of scientific discovery. Scientists from all fields need to
read this story.
My only tiny point of contention (and I feel guilty even mentioning it) is that the article does not
really explain why the telescope itself is unique, with its ground-breaking surface design of
separate, individual, fully steerable panels, making it possible to carry out sub-mm astronomy
with a 15-metre dish, when every other dish this size or bigger can only perform mm astronomy.
However, the design and building of the telescope is a whole story in itself, and one which has
been told elsewhere. This paper celebrates the astronomy that has come from the telescope, and it
tells the story very well.
I have absolutely no hesitation in recommending the paper for immediate publication. It should
be a must-read paper for all those interested in any branch of astronomy, for its insight into the
manner in which technological breakthroughs in instrumentation lead to rich veins of
astronomical discoveries, and for its celebration of those 'behind the scenes' whose genius permits
those of us who simply take the observations to bask in lime-light.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170754)
01-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Holland
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170754 entitled
"Celebrating 30 Years of Science from the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope" has been accepted for
4
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170754
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 10-Aug-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Rob Ivison
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a useful and entertaining historical perspective on the success of the JCMT as observatory
at its 30th anniversary. It is well written and well laid out. The highlights selected are perhaps
somewhat inevitably biased towards the interests of the authors but nonetheless represent a
reasonably somplete survey and overview. As such I am happy to recommend publication
subject to minor corrects as follows:
In the introduction they should perhaps tone down the self-congratulation a bit, particularly in
the 2nd paragraph.
Also SCUBA arrived in 1996 not 1997, this is clearly a typo as they give the correct date later on.
In section 2 they refer to "most-cited" and "next most cited" papers, it might be interesting to
quote a number at this point to give the reader some idea of the scale. "Most-cited" after all could
still be relatively low on an absolute scale, whereas in reality we are presumably talking about
well over 1000 cites.
When discussing the success of the Hughes et al SCUBA paper on the HDF they should perhaps
mention that it was a fortuitous coincidence that the first winter SCUBA was operating coincided
with the strongest El Nino even for many years, and one that was not repeated until the winter of
2016/17, i.e. 30 years later.
In section 5 they mention PI instruments by surname of the PI, they should give the PI full name
and institution. Also when discussing the EHT they fail to mention that these were VLBI
observations.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
As far as I am concerned all my comments may be passed to the authors, and I suppose that is the
idea with open peer review, but I leave it to the editor to decide whether any censorship of my
comments would be a good idea.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a truly monumental paper, written by 3 of the main contributors to the success of this
telescope over the last 3 decades. The scope and breadth of the science is tremendous. No
significant discovery of the telescope has been omitted. This is history written by the people who
made it happen. It is a genuine page-turner. It is a story that needs to be told, of how the
ingenuity of the instrumentation, coupled to the unique attributes of the telescope, and its
location, led to generation after generation of scientific discovery. Scientists from all fields need to
read this story.
My only tiny point of contention (and I feel guilty even mentioning it) is that the article does not
really explain why the telescope itself is unique, with its ground-breaking surface design of
separate, individual, fully steerable panels, making it possible to carry out sub-mm astronomy
with a 15-metre dish, when every other dish this size or bigger can only perform mm astronomy.
However, the design and building of the telescope is a whole story in itself, and one which has
been told elsewhere. This paper celebrates the astronomy that has come from the telescope, and it
tells the story very well.
7
I have absolutely no hesitation in recommending the paper for immediate publication. It should
be a must-read paper for all those interested in any branch of astronomy, for its insight into the
manner in which technological breakthroughs in instrumentation lead to rich veins of
astronomical discoveries, and for its celebration of those 'behind the scenes' whose genius permits
those of us who simply take the observations to bask in lime-light.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170754)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170754.R1)
08-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Holland,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Celebrating 30 Years of Science from
the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Comments on “Celebrating 30 Years of Science from the JCMT” by Ian Robson, Wayne
Holland and Per Friberg.
The authors have put in an impressive amount of effort in pulling together and organizing the large
amount of work that has come out of the JCMT. I believe that this is valuable contribution and that
it will be useful to readers who are interested in how the field developed. From a personal point of
view I would naturally be very pleased to see this published. I agree that a generally “celebratory”
tone is appropriate – for what it is worth I believe that 30 years was the design life that the
engineers were asked to work towards! I do however have the following concerns.
1) Subject.
This is probably a trivial point, but I note that the criteria for acceptance include that the article
contains original research and that it reports results that have not been published elsewhere.
Clearly this is a review of the published literature and does not meet these criteria. I suppose that
this has already been agreed by the Editor.
2) Possibly contentious aspects.
It is clear from the title that the emphasis is to be on the positive aspects of the JCMT’s contribution,
but the use of superlatives to describe it may raise eyebrows in some camps. In the first sentence of
the abstract the JCMT is described as “the most successful” and in the text as “the premier” (my
italics) and in the fourth paragraph UKT14 is said to have “reigned supreme in the world”. The
authors are careful to specify that they are talking about single-dish submm telescopes which does
very much restrict the field – I think the CSO and HHT were the only other major facilities for much
of the period under discussion. I suspect that some would argue that CSO did at least as much as
JCMT to “push the sensitivity limits”, especially in spectral line observations. In addition APEX has
now been in operation for 10 years: it has certainly been productive and, sad to say, it has a larger
and more up to date set of instruments than JCMT. Some specific evidence is given to support these
claims for JCMT’s status, i.e. the >1000 citations for the paper on submm galaxies and the Trimble
and Haich study of impact which does, however, refer to as long ago as 2001. I nevertheless think
that more detailed analysis of the JCMT’s impact over the whole period would be needed to justify
statements like those above. (Note that it is for this reason that I ticked the No box for “Are the
interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?”) I suggest that the authors should consider
using words like “outstanding” and “leading” instead, boring as that may be.
Care is also needed in assigning precedence for particular discoveries or for opening up new areas,
since that is something that people are sensitive about. I am sure that the authors have paid
attention to this and I am certainly not competent to criticise their conclusions on most of these
cases, but naturally I did look at the topics that I happened to be close to. I was a little surprised that
the Dunlop et al paper (ref 44) was quoted as the earliest observation relating to cosmology, with no
mention of the Isaak et al. observation of BR1202 (1994, MNRAS, 269, L28) at a redshift of 4.7. In
section 5f, although I do believe it to be true that JCMT-CSO interferometer performed the first
observations at 345 and 460GHz, I don’t think it can be said to have been a forerunner of the Plateau
de Bure interferometer, since that was in operation well before then, although not at such a high
frequency.
Given that the paper does give the impression of attempting to cover all the important work with
the JCMT (although the authors have wisely noted in the introduction that it was not possible to
include all the science from 30 years of operations), omissions might also be sensitive. Here I missed
the surveys done at 1.1mm, e.g. with the AzTEC camera. There are papers by Scott et al. 2008,
(MNRAS, 385, 2225) and Austermann et al. 2009 (MNRAS, 393, 1750) on the COSMOS field and I
suppose more on other areas. It may be that this work was left out because the paper is structured
around the sequence of common-user instruments. It would be worth checking whether significant
work done with other visiting/PI instruments has been missed.
I am sure that many users of JCMT will come up with items of their own that they feel should have
been mentioned. Again just thinking about things that I was involved with myself, I did rather expect
to see a mention in section 2(d) of the paper on SagB2 by Goldsmith et al. 1990, ApJ, 350, 186. I do
recognize however that many papers will inevitably be left out. The statement is made that the
selection of topics was mainly based on citation indices. Perhaps it would help if you indicated what
the roughly what cut-off was used for the number of citations.
3) Structure of the Paper
The authors have chosen to follow the historical development by reference to the instruments on
the telescope. As a result some of the scientific areas come around several times at different places.
To me this makes the paper rather hard going. I think that it would be easier to follow the evolution
of the various science topics if they were dealt with one at a time through the whole period. I do
however support the authors’ intention of stressing the importance of the technical advances in
making the science possible and I recognize that it would take a great deal of effort to restructure
the paper at this stage, so I am not suggesting that. I think however that it would be helpful to
include some signposts, along the lines of “We return to subject A in sections X and Y.” and perhaps
some back-references “As described in section P,”.
4) Quality of the language
I have also marked the “Is the language acceptable?” box with a No. This was in fact triggered by
reading the abstract. Each of the second and third sentences consists of a long series of preliminary
phrases on several different subjects before coming to the actual statement. I think it would help to
break these sentences up to make the language more direct. I am perhaps being too fussy here,
since most of the writing is admirably clear, but I feel that it would be worth going through the text
to check for other places where the constructions should be simplified.
5) A detailed point
Section 2f, last para but one, “from which flaring behaviour could be subtracted”. I think you mean,
“which could be subtracted from the flaring behaviour”.
Appendix B
Dear Editor,
Many thanks for the report on the paper submitted. I include the response to the (very helpful) reviewer
comments below.
Also included below are responses to the statements on ethics, data accessibility etc.
With best regards,
Wayne Holland
Referee’s comments and responses (responses proceeded by "-")
Reviewer 1:
In the introduction they should perhaps tone down the self-congratulation a bit, particularly in the 2nd
paragraph. Also SCUBA arrived in 1996 not 1997, this is clearly a typo as they give the correct date later
on.
- The text has been modified to tone down the self-congratulation, lessen the use of superlatives and
specifically remove ‘management’ in the 2nd para. However, we still contend that describing the JCMT as
“the most successful single-dish submillimetre telescope” is justified by the high-profile discoveries made
and the productivity of the telescope in terms of papers and citations. An extended paragraph has been
added in the “Concluding Remarks” on the productivity of the telescope. The typo has been corrected.
In section 2 they refer to "most-cited" and "next most cited" papers, it might be interesting to quote a
number at this point to give the reader some idea of the scale. "Most-cited" after all could still be
relatively low on an absolute scale, whereas in reality we are presumably talking about well over 1000
cites.
- The number of citations for these papers is now given.
When discussing the success of the Hughes et al SCUBA paper on the HDF they should perhaps mention
that it was a fortuitous coincidence that the first winter SCUBA was operating coincided with the
strongest El Nino even for many years, and one that was not repeated until the winter of 2016/17, i.e.
30 years later.
- This was mentioned in the opening paragraph to this section (as other observations also benefitted
from the El Nino event), but has now also been added as a footnote comment specifically to the section
discussing the HDF observations.
In section 5 they mention PI instruments by surname of the PI, they should give the PI full name and
institution. Also when discussing the EHT they fail to mention that these were VLBI observations.
- The full PI names and institutions have been included along with some of the results where applicable
in sections 4 and 5. It has also been made clear that the EHT carries out VLBI observations.
Reviewer 2:
It is clear from the title that the emphasis is to be on the positive aspects of the JCMT’s contribution, but
the use of superlatives to describe it may raise eyebrows in some camps. In the first sentence of the
abstract the JCMT is described as “the most successful” and in the text as “the premier” (my italics) and
in the fourth paragraph UKT14 is said to have “reigned supreme in the world”. The authors are careful to
specify that they are talking about single-dish submm telescopes which does very much restrict the field
– I think the CSO and HHT were the only other major facilities for much of the period under discussion. I
suspect that some would argue that CSO did at least as much as JCMT to “push the sensitivity limits”,
especially in spectral line observations. In addition APEX has now been in operation for 10 years: it has
certainly been productive and, sad to say, it has a larger and more up to date set of instruments than
JCMT. Some specific evidence is given to support these claims for JCMT’s status, i.e. the >1000 citations
for the paper on submm galaxies and the Trimble and Haich study of impact which does, however, refer
to as long ago as 2001. I nevertheless think
that more detailed analysis of the JCMT’s impact over the whole period would be needed to justify
statements like those above. (Note that it is for this reason that I ticked the No box for “Are the
interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?”) I suggest that the authors should consider
using words like “outstanding” and “leading” instead, boring as that may be.
- The superlatives used in the abstract, introduction and UKT14 sections have been replaced with more
modest words and descriptions (please see text). However, as in the reply to Reviewer 1, we still
contend that describing the JCMT as “the most successful single-dish submillimetre telescope” is justified
by the high-profile discoveries made and the productivity of the telescope in terms of papers and
citations. An extended paragraph has been added in the “Concluding Remarks” on the productivity of the
telescope.
Care is also needed in assigning precedence for particular discoveries or for opening up new areas, since
that is something that people are sensitive about. I am sure that the authors have paid attention to this
and I am certainly not competent to criticise their conclusions on most of these cases, but naturally I did
look at the topics that I happened to be close to. I was a little surprised that the Dunlop et al paper (ref
44) was quoted as the earliest observation relating to cosmology, with no mention of the Isaak et al.
observation of BR1202 (1994, MNRAS, 269, L28) at a redshift of 4.7.
- We refer to the Dunlop paper in the context of cosmology and the epoch of galaxy formation and early
evolution, rather than searching for dust in radio-quiet quasars, however, we have been happy to
include Kate’s observations in the preceding paragraph, where it fits very nicely.
In section 5f, although I do believe it to be true that JCMT-CSO interferometer performed the first
observations at 345 and 460GHz, I don’t think it can be said to have been a forerunner of the Plateau de
Bure interferometer, since that was in operation well before then, although not at such a high
frequency.
- The reference to the Plateau de Bure interferometer has been removed.
- Given that the paper does give the impression of attempting to cover all the important work with the
JCMT (although the authors have wisely noted in the introduction that it was not possible to include all
the science from 30 years of operations), omissions might also be sensitive. Here I missed the surveys
done at 1.1mm, e.g. with the AzTEC camera. There are papers by Scott et al. 2008, (MNRAS, 385,
2225) and Austermann et al. 2009 (MNRAS, 393, 1750) on the COSMOS field and I suppose more on
other areas. It may be that this work was left out because the paper is structured around the sequence
of common-user instruments. It would be worth checking whether significant work done with other
visiting/PI instruments has been missed.
- Many thanks for this comment. It is indeed the case that the results highlighted are biased towards the
common-user facility instruments. However, we do note the impact of several visiting instruments, and
as noted above, we have included the significant results from the AzTEC survey of the COSMOS field (as
suggested) in Section 3a, and examples from the spectroscopic visiting instruments SPIFI and Receiver
G in Section 5b.
I am sure that many users of JCMT will come up with items of their own that they feel should have been
mentioned. Again just thinking about things that I was involved with myself, I did rather expect to see a
mention in section 2(d) of the paper on SagB2 by Goldsmith et al. 1990, ApJ, 350, 186. I do recognize
however that many papers will inevitably be left out. The statement is made that the selection of topics
was mainly based on citation indices. Perhaps it would help if you indicated what the roughly what cut-
off was used for the number of citations.
- Although there was an element of “pick and choose” of what we believed to be the highest profile
papers for the science topics (and many were highlighted in the bi-annual JCMT newsletter and Annual
Reports), the papers discussed tended to be the highest cited in each subject area (this is certainly the
case for sections 2, 3 and 5, but less so for section 4 as the surveys are more recent and in many cases
still ongoing). For example, most of the chosen UKT14 papers have more than 50 citations. For SCUBA
the majority of the papers, particularly for the extragalactic surveys, have several hundred citations (the
paper on the HDF has over 1000 citations, and the one on the first debris disc imaging close to 400).
- Thanks for the reminder about the Goldsmith et al. SgrB2 paper. This has now been included.
The authors have chosen to follow the historical development by reference to the instruments on the
telescope. As a result some of the scientific areas come around several times at different places. To me
this makes the paper rather hard going. I think that it would be easier to follow the evolution of the
various science topics if they were dealt with one at a time through the whole period. I do however
support the authors’ intention of stressing the importance of the technical advances in making the
science possible and I recognize that it would take a great deal of effort to restructure the paper at this
stage, so I am not suggesting that. I think however that it would be helpful to include some signposts,
along the lines of “We return to subject A in sections X and Y.” and perhaps some back-references “As
described in section P,”.
- Thanks for this very helpful suggestion. We have included some “signposts” in various sections (see
text for details)
I have also marked the “Is the language acceptable?” box with a No. This was in fact triggered by
reading the abstract. Each of the second and third sentences consists of a long series of preliminary
phrases on several different subjects before coming to the actual statement. I think it would help to
break these sentences up to make the language more direct. I am perhaps being too fussy here, since
most of the writing is admirably clear, but I feel that it would be worth going through the text to check
for other places where the constructions should be simplified.
- We thank the referee for this point as we had struggled with that sentence in the Abstract and the
comment gave us the opportunity to revisit this and break-up the Sentence, which we think now, reads
much better.
- Section 2f, last para but one, “from which flaring behaviour could be subtracted”. I think you mean,
“which could be subtracted from the flaring behaviour”.
- Thanks for spotting this error. The text has now been changed.
Reviewer 3:
My only tiny point of contention (and I feel guilty even mentioning it) is that the article does not really
explain why the telescope itself is unique, with its ground-breaking surface design of separate,
individual, fully steerable panels, making it possible to carry out sub-mm astronomy with a 15-metre
dish, when every other dish this size or bigger can only perform mm astronomy. However, the design
and building of the telescope is a whole story in itself, and one which has been told elsewhere. This
paper celebrates the astronomy that has come from the telescope, and it tells the story very well.
- We appreciate this comment, and agree that this is really a separate story. Several of the unique
features about the telescope (e.g. the secondary mirror) are mentioned at various points in the text. A
reference to the telescope design has also been added to the first section of the introduction.
Statements
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including
the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether
informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions,
licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
- N/A
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state
where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where
possible of where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols,
software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section
should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been
made publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI
should also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
- N/A
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify your
current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170754
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing
interests.
- N/A
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions section
which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of the
following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or
analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual
content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence alignments,
participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the statistical
analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the study
and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for publication.
- All three authors carried out the research for the paper, drafted the manuscript and gave final approval
for publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
- None to add.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
- The work in the paper was not supported by a specific grant or award.
Society Open
