A process of rumour scotching on finite populations
Guilherme Ferraz de Arruda, Elcio Lebensztayn, Francisco A. Rodrigues and Pablo Martín
Rodríguez
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150240.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150240
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 June 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 10 August 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 August 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150240.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript proposes a competition-like model to study the rumor spreading dynamics. In
their model, spreaders try to transmit the information, while stiflers are also active and try to
scotch the spreading. Effects of transmission/scotching rates and initial conditions are studied by
using analytical and simulations approaches.
This paper is interesting, but needs a significant improvement. My suggestions are as follows:
1. Please correct all the typos and errors. For example, in Abstract, ‘inicial condition’ -
>’initial condition’; at the end of the first paragraph, ‘by the same mathematical models’ -> ‘by
mathematical models’; in the second paragraph of section 2, ‘the first stochastic rumor models are
due to’.
2. The novelty and most important findings should be highlighted in Introduction. Please
do not simply compare your model with others. The details of model design should be given in
the main text.
3. In the first sentence of page 2, ‘on finite graphs, including random graphs and scale-free
networks’, what do you mean by ‘finite graphs’?
4. The proposed model (1) is very different from the DK model. In DK model, X(t), Y(t) and
Z(t) are the numbers of corresponding individuals, while in model (1), x, y, z are the fractions of
individuals. So I’m not sure whether it is appropriate to use previous analytical method. Please
give some explanation.
5. Detailed mathematical derivation such as law of large numbers and central limit theorem
can be given in appendix.
6. In the Introduction, for literature studying the disease spreading dynamics, a review
paper is recommended for citation: Spatial epidemiology of networked metapopulation: An
overview. Chin. Sci. Bull. 59, 3511-3522 (2014). In page 8, for evidence to support using
heterogeneous networks, two recent technical papers are recommended: Toward a temporal
network analysis of interactive WiFi users. Europhys. Lett. 98, 68002 (2012); How human
location-specific contact patterns impact spatial transmission between population? Scientific
Reports 3, 1468 (2013).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In their work entitled “A process of rumor scotching on finite populations”, the authors introduce
an alternative version of the Maki-Thompson model where stiflers try to scotch the transmission
of the information.This kind of process is studied both analytically (under the hypothesis of
homogeneous mixing) and numerically (for complex networks), providing an overall detailed
description of the model itself.
In general, I find the work clearly written and the topic of interest for a wide community of
scientists.
The mathematics is sound and the length is appropriate. Also, I definitely believe that the both
the topic and way how it is dealt with are suitable for the Royal Society Open Science.
There are only some points concerning the presentation, that I would like the authors to address
before I can recommend the publication. These points are explained hereafter:
1. Competition-like models for the spreading of information can lead to non trivial effects and
display very general applications. An interesting application may concern the marketing policies:
for instance, the initial spreader is the first to try a new product and his/her neighbours can
imitate him/her with a rate lambda. Now, suppose that the product is low quality, then agents
who have tried the product, upon interaction with other users, will dismiss the product with rate
alpha. Therefore, the larger z and the worse for the producers.
A similar information spreading process applied to marketing policies was studied in E. Agliari
et al. IMA J. Management Mathematics ("Word-of-mouth and dynamical inhomogeneous
markets: an efficiency measure and optimal sampling policies for the pre-launch stage", 2009) and
in E. Agliari et al. Phys. Rev. E ("Efficiency of information spreading in a population of diffusing
agents", 2006).
The authors may consider these works to further motivate their study.
2. The sentence in line 54 sounds misleading (at least to me). I would rather say that "a person
propagates a piece of information to another one and then possibly become stifler", or "... and,
upon interaction with ..., become a stifler", or something like that. That is, becoming a stifler is not
automatic.
3. As far as I can see, the notation in line 53 is not defined. I can see that probably definitions can
be found in Ref[39], but it would be nice if the paper was self consistent.
4. The part before Eq. 17 is not very clear. Please, give more details on how heterogeneity is
accounted for. This is a fundamental part of the work and, in my opinion, it deserves a clear
explanation.
5. In Fig. 4-7 the authors present results obtained numerically for stochastic networks (ER and BA
graphs). Are these plots obtained for a particular realization of the underlying graph?
If so, please, comment on how robust these results are with respect to the particular realization of
the graph.
6. When considering BA networks, the authors focus on the case gamma=3. In real-world
realizations of scale-free networks one usually finds 2<gamma<3. Thus, I wonder whether the
results obtained for gamma=3 can be extended also to the case 2<gamma<3 and, in particular,
whether the differences between the case ER and BA outlined here still hold (a fortiori?).
7. The comparison between Figs. 4-5 and Figs. 6-7 can be very instructive and, indeed, significant
differences emerge. It would be very useful if the authors could further comment on the
emerging differences between the MT model and the model studied in their manuscript. Beyond
4
describing the differences it would be important to explain how the different mechanisms
characterizing the models imply the emerging effects.
8. Is the observable introduced in Eq. 22 necessary?
9. It would be helpful for the reader is the authors could sharpen the very goal of Sec. 5.
In fact, the homogeneous mixing hypothesis was already overcome in Sec. 4, thus the authors
should clarify which class of observables can be addressed with the method of Sec. 4 and which
with the method of Sec. 5.
Minor points:
- In general, figures display different fonts and character size, it would be nice if the authors
could make their figures homogeneous.
- In Fig. 4-7, when printed in B/W, while bright colors always correspond to intermediate values
of <k>, it is hard to distinguish whether a dark color corresponds to either large or low values of
<k>.
Finally, I noticed a few typos
- in the abstract "inicial"
- page 2, line 48, double comma after references
- misprint in Ref[8]
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150240)
26-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Rodriguez,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("A process of rumor scotching on finite populations")
has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 19-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
5
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150240)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150240.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
All concerned points are improved, thus my pleasure to recommend the publication of this paper.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No Supporting data necessary
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
7
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have addressed all the points raised in my previous report and generally improved
their manuscript.
I can now recommend pubblication in the Royal Society Open Science.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150240.R1)
18-Aug-2015
Dear Dr Rodriguez,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A process of rumor scotching on finite
populations" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
endix A
Reply to referee reports for:
A process of rumor scotching on finite populations
By: Arruda, Lebensztayn, Rodrigues and Rodriguez.
ditor,
t of all we would like to thank the reviewers for their useful comments, suggestions and corrections to
hen the presentation of our results. Their comments have contributed for improving our paper. Based on
ree reports, we have revised our manuscript for further consideration.
w is provided a detailed reply to the comments from the referees.
wer 1 (Remarks to the Author):
lease correct all the typos and errors. For example, in Abstract, ‘inicial condition’ <U+2192> ‘initial condition’; at
e end of the first paragraph, ‘by the same mathematical models’ <U+2192> ‘by mathematical models’; in the second
aragraph of section 2, ‘the first stochastic rumor models are due to’.
= We have corrected the typos and errors.
he novelty and most important findings should be highlighted in Introduction. Please do not simply compare
our model with others. The details of model design should be given in the main text.
= We have added a paragraph containing the novelty and most important findings for the model in the
troduction Section.
the first sentence of page 2, ‘on finite graphs, including random graphs and scale-free networks’, what do
ou mean by “finite graphs”?
= By a finite graph we mean a graph with a finite number of vertices (or nodes). We have added a line
bout this on the respective sentence in the Introduction.
he proposed model (1) is very different from the DK model. In DK model, X(t), Y (t) and Z(t) are the
umbers of corresponding individuals, while in model (1), x, y, z are the fractions of individuals. So I’m not
re whether it is appropriate to use previous analytical method. Please give some explanation.
= We have re-organized such Section in order to clarify our observation. Indeed, the relation between the
ochastic and deterministic model is that when n goes to 8, the entire trajectories of the Markov chain,
scaled by n, have as a limit that set of differential equations.
etailed mathematical derivation such as law of large numbers and central limit theorem can be given in
ppendix.
= We have maintained the mathematical derivation of limit theorems inside the text for the sake of com-
leteness. We believe this way contribute with the clarity (and reading) of the mathematical arguments.
the Introduction, for literature studying the disease spreading dynamics, a review paper is recommended
r citation: Spatial epidemiology of networked meta-population: An overview. Chin. Sci. Bull. 59, 3511-
522 (2014). In page 8, for evidence to support using heterogeneous networks, two recent technical papers
re recommended: Toward a temporal network analysis of interactive WiFi users. Europhys. Lett. 98,
8002 (2012); How human location-specific contact patterns impact spatial transmission between population?
cientific Reports 3, 1468 (2013).
= We have followed these recommendations and these references have been included in the paper.
wer 2 (Remarks to the Author):
ompetition-like models for the spreading of information can lead to non trivial effects and display very
eneral applications. An interesting application may concern the marketing policies: for instance, the initial
reader is the first to try a new product and his/her neighbours can imitate him/her with a rate lambda.
ow, suppose that the product is low quality, then agents who have tried the product, upon interaction
ith other users, will dismiss the product with rate alpha. Therefore, the larger z and the worse for the
roducers. A similar information spreading process applied to marketing policies was studied in E. Agliari et
. IMA J. Management Mathematics (”Word-of-mouth and dynamical inhomogeneous markets: an efficiency
easure and optimal sampling policies for the pre-launch stage”, 2009) and in E. Agliari et al. Phys. Rev. E
Efficiency of information spreading in a population of diffusing agents”, 2006). The authors may consider
ese works to further motivate their study.
= We have followed these suggestions and have included such references and a paragraph suggesting this
pplication for our model.
he sentence in line 54 sounds misleading (at least to me). I would rather say that ”a person propagates a
iece of information to another one and then possibly become stifler”, or ”... and, upon interaction with ...,
ecome a stifler”, or something like that. That is, becoming a stifler is not automatic.
= We have improved such sentence in order to clarify the description of the model.
s far as I can see, the notation in line 53 is not defined. I can see that probably definitions can be found in
ef[39], but it would be nice if the paper was self consistent.
= You are right, indeed this notation is defined just in Ref[39]. We have decided to withdraw this notation
order to avoid confusion in the description of our model.
he part before Eq. 17 is not very clear. Please, give more details on how heterogeneity is accounted for.
his is a fundamental part of the work and, in my opinion, it deserves a clear explanation.
= We have added some lines before Eq. 19 in order to clarify this part. The heterogeneity is accounted
hen we deal with the event Bji (h), when we have to take in account the connections regarding the vertex i.
Fig. 4-7 the authors present results obtained numerically for stochastic networks (ER and BA graphs).
re these plots obtained for a particular realization of the underlying graph? If so, please, comment on how
bust these results are with respect to the particular realization of the graph.
= We follow a quenched formalism, in this manner it is a realization on a particular network. It is better
xplained on the text, where we wrote a small comparison with other analytical methods, QMF and HMF.
hen considering BA networks, the authors focus on the case <U+03B3> = 3. In real-world realizations of scale-free
etworks one usually finds 2 < <U+03B3> < 3. Thus, I wonder whether the results obtained for <U+03B3> = 3 can be extended
so to the case 2 < <U+03B3> < 3 and, in particular, whether the differences between the case ER and BA outlined
ere still hold (a fortiori?).
= In order to extend our results to power-law with 2 < gamma < 3, we performed some more experiments,
e Figure 6, where we numerically find the phase diagrams for <U+03B3> = 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.8 and, for the sake of
omparison with ER networks. On the text we performed a comparison between the behavior of our model
nd some well known features of the MT model on heterogeneous networks.
he comparison between Figs. 4-5 and Figs. 6-7 can be very instructive and, indeed, significant differences
merge. It would be very useful if the authors could further comment on the emerging differences between
e MT model and the model studied in their manuscript. Beyond describing the differences it would be
mportant to explain how the different mechanisms characterizing the models imply the emerging effects.
= We introduced a comparison on the last paragraphs of Section 4
the observable introduced in Eq. 22 necessary?
= Indeed it is not necessary. We have withdrawn this equation.
would be helpful for the reader is the authors could sharpen the very goal of Sec. 5. In fact, the homogeneous
ixing hypothesis was already overcome in Sec. 4, thus the authors should clarify which class of observables
an be addressed with the method of Sec. 4 and which with the method of Sec. 5.
= The analytical and numerical methods exposed in Section 4 and the Monte Carlo simulations exposed in
ection 5 are complementary. On one hand the ODE system give us insights about the process, allowing us
threat it mathematically, on the other hand the Monte Carlo simulations make less assumptions.
Society Open
