Revision of the Late Jurassic teleosaurid genus
Machimosaurus (Crocodylomorpha, Thalattosuchia).
Mark T. Young, Stéphane Hua, Lorna Steel, Davide Foffa, Stephen L. Brusatte, Silvan
Thüring, Octávio Mateus, José Ignacio Ruiz-Omeñaca, Philipe Havlik, Yves Lepage, Marco
Brandalise de Andrade
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140222.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140222
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140222.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrea Cau)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript is very well written and includes an adeguate series of figures. It requires a very
minor revision: all particular comments and suggestions are listed in the attached .pdf file. Please,
check the non-Italian and non-English abstracts carefully with native speaking readers before re-
submission.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Michael Benton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a clear, thorough and high-quality MS, offering a thorough taxonomic overview of a
contentious field, and benefiting from involvement of numerous authors, representing materials
across European museums. The work is thorough, well executed, well written, and well
illustrated. A classic 'bread and butter' piece of taxonomic work that will be cited for decades to
come. I am impressed by the numerous Abstracts in different languages – I did not attempt to
check these, only the English version. I congratulate the authors on the care with which they have
done the work, and I struggled to find even some small typos to criticise: 12/45 outside of =
outside 13/12-15/55 Not sure that the inset numbered list is most attractive – make these more
normal paragraphs, with numbered sections (1), (2) embedded. 16/7 wht = what [switch on
Word spell check to have a last trawl for any such obvious typos] 19/25 tooths = tooth’s 23/12
onwards: von Huene or Huene? Traditionally, this person was referred to as ‘Huene’ in text and
reference lists (indexed under ‘H’). I see you use the form ‘Huene, F. von’ in the reference list,
with which I would concur. Maybe change ‘von Huene’ in the text throughout to ‘Huene’? Same
applies to ‘von Meyer’ = ‘Meyer’ (e.g. MS page 29). 26/52 Maybe also give Greek alphabetic
version of sauros (for completeness, as you do this for ‘machimoi’). 45/12 metres = m 51/16 ,, = ,
3
label_version_2
RSOS-140222.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
Dear sir or madam,
We are thrilled by the reviewers positive comments. We have made every change suggested by
them, with the exception of altering von Huene/von Meyer to Huene/Meyer. As Reviewer 2 has
said, including the aristocratic 'von' is correct for these two individuals. Thus we have retained
them, but we will abide by the production office's decision as to whether or not to include them.
The only new addition made is the introduction of 6 new figures, and the alteration of 2 of the
previous ones. This was done as during review a series of new images was sent to me (they now
constitute the new Figure 2). Moreover, the Natural History Museum London digitised negatives
of the M. nowackianus holotype and M. mosae neotype. These images have been included to
create new figures.
As multiple abstacts are not supported, we have deleted the non-English abstracts.
All changes made are track-changed in the revised version of the manuscript.
Finally, we have uploaded TIFF formats of the figures. We can provide EPS formats via a shared
dropbox folder if needed. Due to the high number of figures we continued with TIFFs.
Yours sincerely,
Mark Young (on behalf of all co-authors).
label_end_comment
Decision letter
11-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Young
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140222 entitled
"Revision of the Late Jurassic teleosaurid genus Machimosaurus (Crocodylomorpha,
Thalattosuchia)" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
Please note that it is not possible for us to accommodate multiple abstracts in different languages.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that
you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
4
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
