Information use by humans during dynamic route choice in
virtual crowd evacuations
Nikolai W. F. Bode, Armel U. Kemloh Wagoum, Edward A. Codling
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140410.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140410
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 December 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140308.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
To be honest (and blunt) I was really disturbed by this manuscript.
The claim of being able to say something about real pedestrian dynamics on the basis of
computer-based 'experiments' in virtual environments is, in my opinion, ridiculous and frankly
unnerving for people working at the experimental level in this field.
As the Authors certainly know, real experiments in pedestrian dynamics do exist. For example:
- Transportation science 39 (1), 1-24 (2005)
- Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, rspb. 2009.0405
These are hard experiments, performed with real people moving in a controlled environment, not
clicking on a mouse.
The Authors say that the role of stress in crucial (true), but that (alas!) 'studying the effect of stress
experimentally ... could potentially be dangerous and result in injuries for participants.' Hence,
studying stress experimentally is crucial, but hard (this is often the case in science, by the way).
Therefore, what is the solution: computer experiment in virtual environment?! I do not think this
is serious.
Real experimental data under stress *are* available, unfortunately. Crowd disasters happen and
people interested in how to prevent this kind of dynamics analyze and study these data. See for
example:
- Phys. Rev. E 75, 046109 (2007)
This and similar studies (as those on the love parade disaster) reveal a whole set of important
precursors. And, yes, these study also confirm the fact that stress plays a major role, which can
hardly be reproduced within a virtual environment. So the data are out there.
Apart from stress, the only unrealistic aspect of the study acknowledged by the Authors is the top
view of the participants, in clear and plain contradiction with human perception of space. This is
true, and no convincing explanation is provided to justify this unrealistic setup. But the problem
is that the whole core of the 'experiment' is completely unrealistic from the cognitive/perceptual
point of view. What is the experimental evidence (real experiments) supporting the use of virtual
environment for this kind of study? Is there one major nontrivial feature of crowd dynamics, first
discovered in experiments and later confirmed by the virtual environment analysis? I do not
think so.
I am not a fundamentalist of the experimental approach. I believe that numerical models can be
very helpful, as from their detailed study one can make highly nontrivial predictions that can be
tested experimentally. By doing that one keep separated the theoretical/numerical level, from the
validating experimental one. But what is done here is not a numerical study, but a pseudo-
experiment with no solid justification. This is the reason why I believe this manuscript is
particularly misleading.
In conclusion, I do not recommend publication of this manuscript as I believe that the main
method of analysis is flawed.
I think the manuscript is particularly misleading
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a very clearly written manuscript describing a well defined and executed piece of
research, which I have no hesitation in recommending for publication. I have a few minor
comments which I think will improve the manuscript and increase its impact.
L115. I was unclear on precisely how it was determined if the participants had changed direction.
A quick note here to that effect would clarify
L123. 'also' would be better replaced with 'particularly'
L141. Given the number of comparisons made, a p=0.04 on age dependence is a very weak result
with any standard correction, so I don't think the authors need to dwell on this finding that has
no relevance to their overall findings
L149. There seems to be an implication here that P(change) should be 0.5 under a null hypothesis.
I can think of no reason for this value, and it seems an odd thing to test for.
L172. The authors' main finding that individuals respond more to dynamic rather than static
information could be supported by reference to Mann et al 'A model comparison reveals dynamic
social information drives the movements of humbug damselfish (Dascyllus aruanus)' J R Soc
Interface 2013
L271. Note that not finding a threshold could be the result of individuals having different
thresholds, which are smoothed out in the average.
L286 replace 'stronger' with 'more strongly'
L357. Could comment on the possibility/difficulty of conducting a 3D first person viewpoint
simulation of the environment for the same experiment
L376. Ref 28 - but see also Perez-Escudero et al 'Estimation models describe well collective
decisions among three options' PNAS 2013 in response to this paper.
4
I'm glad that the authors do not over interpret their results in the discussion, however I think for
greater impact the discussion could include a brief statement about the implications of the results
for effective evacuation measures in the real world.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140308)
14-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Bode:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140308 entitled "Information use by humans during dynamic route choice"
which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from
reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
As you will see, the reviewers were quite divided. Would you be kind enough to address the
second reviewer's fundamental issue with your approach in your return cover letter? It may be
sufficient to qualify the limitations of the simulation at the beginning of your manuscript, and to
cite precedent in the literature for your approach in a way that shows how in the past it has been
ground-truthed by empirical studies, for example.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 13-Apr-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140308.R0)
See Appendix A.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-140410.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
label_version_3
RSOS-140410
After careful consideration of the Reply and of the amended version, I am still not in favour of
publication of the present manuscript in Open Science.
The Authors write in their Reply:
"neither referee has any substantial comments on the details of our methodology"
I disagree: I think I expressed rather clearly my strong objections to this methodology. Are the
Authors here making a subtle difference between the details of the methodology and the
methodology itself? Can one strongly disagree with the methodology, but agree with its details? I
am baffled.
"We do not wish to give the impression that our experiment should be understood as a direct test
of real pedestrian dynamics and we do not make this claim in the text. We make it very clear that
we investigate an abstracted human decision-making problem and the factors that affect
individuals’ decisions in this context (lines 50ff)."
I simply note that in the paragraph at 50ff there is NO mention what-so-ever of the virtual reality
setting. Let us read this paragraph again:
"50 Here, we investigate tactical level route choices of individuals in crowd evacuations. The
evacuation of
51 human crowds from confined spaces, such as buildings or vehicles, is a paradigmatic example
for why
52 understanding tactical level pedestrian behaviour is important: individual decisions on when
to evacuate and
6
53 which emergency exit route to use determine the distribution of pedestrians across evacuation
routes and
54 operational level behaviour can subsequently lead to potentially dangerous crowd dynamics
[e.g. 6, 4]. To
55 give a simple example, the majority of evacuees could choose the shortest exit route from a
building, leading
56 to a high pedestrian density along this route (tactical level). High pedestrian densities could
subsequently
57 lead to a build-up of pressure at bottlenecks in the evacuation route or density waves
increasing the risk for
58 pedestrians to fall (operational level)."
Is this making it "very clear that we investigate an abstracted human decision-making problem"?
In my opinion, this paragraph gives exactly the opposite impression, namely that the study is
about real pedestrian dynamics.
But here comes the crucial issue:
"The referee asks if experiments in virtual environments have been validated by experiments in
real crowds. There are many different
ways of implementing virtual environments (e.g. references 13,20,21 in the text) which makes
answering this question difficult. For our implementation, there is no such validation."
I am sorry, but this is the key problem of the whole discussion: there is no experimental
validation of the proposed methodology. To me this is unacceptable. I am asked to make a leap of
faith about the usefulness of the method, but no validating piece of evidence is provided for this.
Moreover, I still think that the Authors are not open enough about this problem in the
manuscript. They write in their Reply:
"Therefore, the behaviour of people in our virtual environment should not be extrapolated
directly to human behaviour in crowd evacuations. We clearly state this (lines 396ff)."
But 396ff is just the end of a long self-celebrating paragraph, and it reads:
"396 This would also help to address the question of the extent to which our findings can be
extrapolated to real crowd evacuations."
This is a very light way to pose to the reader the problem of the lack of experimental validation.
The Authors list three points that supposedly demonstrate the usefulness of their approach:
1. "First, in virtual environments we can carefully control the information individuals perceive.
While the decision-making problem is abstracted, we study the behaviour of real human
participants. Therefore, we gain insights into real human decision-making."
Yes, I agree.
However, the Authors here miss the crucial difference between 'real decision-making' and 'real
decision-making in a real environment'. This is the whole point.
2. "We think of the approach we take in our manuscript as one way of developing an intuition for
how stress could affect real human
behaviour in crowd evacuations in a scientifically rigorous way. This intuition can then be used
to aid the formulation of models (line 399ff). As the referee rightly points out, the models
subsequently have to be validated against empirical data."
7
So, models must be validated against empirical data, but virtual reality experiments do not? I
disagree with that.
3. "Third, there are many different scenarios in crowd evacuations that merit our attention. We
have argued in the text that experiments with real crowds of people are time-consuming,
expensive and potentially not ethical (lines 104ff, 369ff). Experiments in virtual environments are
useful as a tool to aid the selection of topics that should be studied next in more realistic
experiments when resources and time are limited."
I would argue that lacking any experimental validation in any kind of setting, we cannot trust the
method as a tool to aid the selection of real experiments.
--
To summarize: in this resubmission I found no evidence that the method has any validating
experimental support. Even the Authors admit this in the reply (although not in the paper itself).
This is, in my opinion, the main unresolved issue about the paper, so I do not recommend
publication.
Clearly, I belong to a different community than References 16-19, and I cannot help it. My
background is somewhat more traditional: if you cannot make the experiment about A, but only
about B, then you should at least provide *some* experimental evidence that in *some* controlled
cases B has something to say about A. If not, I cannot accept the study of B as a valid tool to
understand A.
Hence, I think that ultimately it is up to the Editor to decide what to do. This is an editorial issue:
papers using this method are published in journals (16-19). Is this something Open Science wants
to do or not? The answer really depends on the scientific orientation of the journal.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
As stated in my original review, I think this paper is clear, precise, and ready for publication.
Clearly my views are at odds with the other reviewer, who is concerned that such a computer
8
simulation does not provide useful information about a real evacuation. While I sympathise
strongly with the idea that computer simulations, especially in abstract environments, can not
substitute for real-life experiments in this field, I agree with the authors that the value of such a
simulation is that it tells us what factors to try manipulating in an experiment. Clearly the
monetary, time and logistic cost of real experiments behoves us to use higher throughput
methods to better design those experiments in the first place, and that is where I see the value of
this paper.
The authors responses to my minor points are satisfactory, and I consider their responses to
reviewer 2 to have improved the paper by stressing its limitations and the role it plays as
complementary to real experiments. Even if one is skeptical about the value of this work in terms
of improving real evacuations, its limitations are clear and stated, and within those limitations it
is well performed, analysed and presented. It may have impacts on other areas of agent-based
modelling and the understanding of collective motion among goal-based agents beyond the
confines of improving evacuations. I have no further concerns that should prevent publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140410)
18-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Bode,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Information use by humans during dynamic route
choice in virtual crowd evacuations") has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Biology Letters and I look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
9
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140410.R0)
See Appendix B.
Dept. of Mathematical Sciences
University of Essex
Colchester, CO4 3SQ, UK
Email: nbode@essex.ac.uk
28th October 2014
Dear editor,
We would like to thank the editor and both referees for their comments on our manuscript.
While the two referees have very different opinions on our general approach, we are pleased to
note that neither referee has any substantial comments on the details of our methodology.
We take the comments of referee 2 very seriously. Crowd evacuations are an important subject
and we should get the methodology right. However, we strongly disagree with the referee’s
comments and we demonstrate below in detail that our approach is justified and useful.
Computer-based experiments are no replacement for evacuation drills or observational data
from real emergencies and we do not make this claim. However, our experiment provides novel
insights into the role different types of information and stress play in real human decision-
making. Furthermore, our findings can be used in the development of theoretical crowd
movement models and as an efficient and cost-effective way to identify topics for further study
from an initially large set of hypotheses. We have taken a number of steps (detailed below) in
addition to what we had done already to further ensure that our manuscript is in no way
misleading.
Please find our detailed responses to all comments below.
We hope that the revisions we have made are appropriate and that our manuscript is now ready
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Yours sincerely,
Nikolai Bode, Armel Kemloh Wagoum, Edward Codling
Referee #1
Comment Response
This is a very clearly written manuscript We thank the referee for the positive
describing a well defined and executed piece of comments.
research, which I have no hesitation in
recommending for publication. I have a few
minor comments which I think will improve
the manuscript and increase its impact.
L115. I was unclear on precisely how it was Apologies, we have inserted a more detailed
determined if the participants had changed description of how we determined whether
direction. A quick note here to that effect participants had changed their mind about
would clarify which exit to use (line 124ff).
L123. 'also' would be better replaced with We agree. Text is changed accordingly (line
'particularly' 133).
1
a p=0.04 on age dependence is a very weak adjustment for multiple comparisons, the
result with any standard correction, so I don't referee is right. However, most people would
think the authors need to dwell on this finding agree that p=0.04 is still quite low and effects
that has no relevance to their overall findings of age on decision-making are of considerable
interest. Therefore, we think it is prudent to
conduct additional tests to ensure the reader is
well informed about potential age effects in our
data.
L149. There seems to be an implication here We agree that perhaps the statistical
that P(change) should be 0.5 under a null comparison to the hypothesis P(change)=0.5 is
hypothesis. I can think of no reason for this somewhat superfluous. We have removed this
value, and it seems an odd thing to test for. (line 159ff).
L172. The authors' main finding that The big difference between Mann et al. (2013)
individuals respond more to dynamic rather and our work lies in the way the terms ‘static’
than static information could be supported by and ‘dynamic information’ are used. In Mann et
reference to Mann et al 'A model comparison al. (2013) static and dynamic social
reveals dynamic social information drives the information are defined as group sizes at
movements of humbug damselfish (Dascyllus different target sites and recent movements of
aruanus)' J R Soc Interface 2013 individuals, respectively. In our framework and
terminology both types of information
considered in Mann et al. are dynamic, as both
the sizes of groups and the movement of
individuals change over time. In our
framework, static information does not change
over time (e.g. door width).
We nevertheless think this reference is very
relevant and now refer to it in the discussion
(line 391ff).
L271. Note that not finding a threshold could This is an interesting thought. However, given
be the result of individuals having different the very low estimated values for this
thresholds, which are smoothed out in the parameter (maximum estimate is 0.11 within a
average. possible range of [0,10]), we think this
scenario is unlikely. For the referee’s
suggestion to work, the distribution of
individual-level thresholds would have to be
extremely biased towards 0.
We have nevertheless qualified our statement
by adding the phrase ‘on average’ (line 280).
L286 replace 'stronger' with 'more strongly' Thank you for pointing this out, we have made
this change (line 295).
L357. Could comment on the We have added a comment along these lines
possibility/difficulty of conducting a 3D first (line 359ff).
person viewpoint simulation of the
environment for the same experiment
L376. Ref 28 - but see also Perez-Escudero et al Thank you for pointing this out. In the more
'Estimation models describe well collective general context of establishing mechanisms
decisions among three options' PNAS 2013 in underlying group decisions the debate in
response to this paper. Perez-Escudero et al. (2013) is indeed highly
relevant. However, for the purpose of this
paper, we think it would be distracting to enter
this discussion. Perez-Escudero et al. (2013)
cannot and do not reject the explanation put
forward in ref. 28. As we only suggest isolation
aversion as a possible mechanism, we feel
there is no need to make a change in the text.
I'm glad that the authors do not over interpret In the light of the comments we received by
2
for greater impact the discussion could include findings. As indicated in the discussion, we
a brief statement about the implications of the think of our work as a way of exploring real
results for effective evacuation measures in the human decision-making in an abstracted way,
real world. of informing simulation models, and as a
method to select topics for further study from a
large set of initial hypotheses.
Referee #2
Referee’s comments:
To be honest (and blunt) I was really disturbed by this manuscript.
The claim of being able to say something about real pedestrian dynamics on the basis of
computer-based 'experiments' in virtual environments is, in my opinion, ridiculous and frankly
unnerving for people working at the experimental level in this field.
As the Authors certainly know, real experiments in pedestrian dynamics do exist. For example:
- Transportation science 39 (1), 1-24 (2005)
- Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, rspb. 2009.0405
These are hard experiments, performed with real people moving in a controlled environment,
not clicking on a mouse.
The Authors say that the role of stress in crucial (true), but that (alas!) 'studying the effect of
stress experimentally ... could potentially be dangerous and result in injuries for participants.'
Hence, studying stress experimentally is crucial, but hard (this is often the case in science, by the
way). Therefore, what is the solution: computer experiment in virtual environment?! I do not
think this is serious.
Real experimental data under stress *are* available, unfortunately. Crowd disasters happen and
people interested in how to prevent this kind of dynamics analyze and study these data. See for
example:
- Phys. Rev. E 75, 046109 (2007)
This and similar studies (as those on the love parade disaster) reveal a whole set of important
precursors. And, yes, these study also confirm the fact that stress plays a major role, which can
hardly be reproduced within a virtual environment. So the data are out there.
Apart from stress, the only unrealistic aspect of the study acknowledged by the Authors is the top
view of the participants, in clear and plain contradiction with human perception of space. This is
true, and no convincing explanation is provided to justify this unrealistic setup. But the problem
is that the whole core of the 'experiment' is completely unrealistic from the cognitive/perceptual
point of view. What is the experimental evidence (real experiments) supporting the use of virtual
environment for this kind of study? Is there one major nontrivial feature of crowd dynamics, first
discovered in experiments and later confirmed by the virtual environment analysis? I do not
think so.
I am not a fundamentalist of the experimental approach. I believe that numerical models can be
very helpful, as from their detailed study one can make highly nontrivial predictions that can be
tested experimentally. By doing that one keep separated the theoretical/numerical level, from
the validating experimental one. But what is done here is not a numerical study, but a pseudo-
experiment with no solid justification. This is the reason why I believe this manuscript is
particularly misleading.
3
method of analysis is flawed.
I think the manuscript is particularly misleading
Response:
We take these comments very seriously. We acknowledge that any potential misinterpretation of
our findings should be pre-empted. However, we strongly disagree with the referee’s assessment
of our work.
We do not wish to give the impression that our experiment should be understood as a direct test
of real pedestrian dynamics and we do not make this claim in the text. We make it very clear that
we investigate an abstracted human decision-making problem and the factors that affect
individuals’ decisions in this context (lines 50ff). Studying this human decision-making problem
in abstracted form in a virtual environment is a method for very carefully controlling what
information people have available when making their decision. This is an important benefit of
this approach; it is much more difficult in real crowd experiments to control different sources of
information in a systematic way.
The referee asks if experiments in virtual environments have been validated by experiments in
real crowds (‘Is there one major nontrivial feature of crowd dynamics, first discovered in
experiments and later confirmed by the virtual environment analysis?’). There are many different
ways of implementing virtual environments (e.g. references 13,20,21 in the text) which makes
answering this question difficult. For our implementation, there is no such validation. Therefore,
the behaviour of people in our virtual environment should not be extrapolated directly to human
behaviour in crowd evacuations. We clearly state this (lines 396ff). However, the referee misses
the point of what we think computer-based experiments (such as ours) are useful for. Relating to
the referee’s question, we think that instead of directly reflecting human behaviour in
emergencies, computer-based experiments are a tool to discover nontrivial features of human
decision-making that can subsequently be validated in observational or more life-like empirical
data (see also our third point below). In the following, we list three points that explicitly
demonstrate the usefulness of our approach:
First, in virtual environments we can carefully control the information individuals perceive.
While the decision-making problem is abstracted, we study the behaviour of real human
participants. Therefore, we gain insights into real human decision-making. Many researchers
across disciplines investigate human decision-making in this way (e.g. references 16-19 in the
text). As already mentioned above and in the manuscript, the application of findings on human
decision-making in virtual environmentas to real-life situations is not straightforward but
nevertheless these studies can still give us useful insights into how people make decisions in
different contexts.
Second, suppose you wanted to formulate a simulation model for crowd movement (the referee
acknowledges these are useful). Let’s further assume that you would like to test the effect of
stress on a crowd leaving a building in simulations. The question is then how you would go about
implementing the effect of stress in the model. Of course there are a lot of ways of doing this and
a lot of ways in which stress could affect human behaviour. We think of the approach we take in
our manuscript as one way of developing an intuition for how stress could affect real human
behaviour in crowd evacuations in a scientifically rigorous way. This intuition can then be used
to aid the formulation of models (line 399ff). As the referee rightly points out, the models
subsequently have to be validated against empirical data.
Third, there are many different scenarios in crowd evacuations that merit our attention. We have
argued in the text that experiments with real crowds of people are time-consuming, expensive
and potentially not ethical (lines 104ff, 369ff). Experiments in virtual environments are useful as
a tool to aid the selection of topics that should be studied next in more realistic experiments
when resources and time are limited. Such an approach may be more rigorous than selecting
4
from crowd disasters, where important aspects of behaviour may be missed..
The above shows that we give a very careful interpretation of our findings in our manuscript
which we think is useful and not misleading. The view that experiments on decision-making in
virtual environments can be useful is not new and is shared by many researchers within the field
of pedestrian dynamics/crowd evacuations (references 13,20,21 in the text) and beyond
(references 16-19 in the text) – a fact the referee unfortunately has not acknowledged.
For the reasons above we disagree with the referee’s assessment of our work. We have
nevertheless made a number of changes to our manuscript to clarfiy our approach and to ensure
our research findings cannot be misinterpeted:
- We have changed the title to ‘Information use by humans during dynamic route choice in virtual
crowd evacuations’
- We have re-written the conclusions in the abstract (lines 27ff).
- We now discuss the interpretation and use of findings from computer-based experiments in a
separate paragraph in the introduction (lines 74ff).
- In the introduction, we clarify that putting people under pressure in a computer-based
experiment allows us to develop an intuition for how pressure affects human decision-making
but that this is not a direct test for how people would behave under stress in real evacuations
(lines 108ff).
- at the start of the discussion we re-iterate that computer-based experiments are not a
replacement for more life-like experiments and observations from real emergencies (lines 331ff).
5
Dear editor,
We would like to thank the editor and both referees for their time and effort in considering our
revised manuscript. Reviewer 1 supports publication of our manuscript without further changes.
Reviewer 2 states our revisions do not address concerns raised in the first response and re-
iterates these concerns. The editor recommends we rewrite our manuscript to ensure that the
interpretation, purpose and limitations of our research are absolutely clear.
In response to these comments, we have made further changes to the abstract, introduction and
discussion of our manuscript. Please find the detailed list of the changes we have made below.
We hope that the revisions we have made are appropriate and that our manuscript is now ready
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Yours sincerely,
Nikolai Bode, Armel Kemloh Wagoum, Edward Codling
Changes made
For completeness, we list all sections of the manuscript that include statements relating to the
interpretation and limitations of our approach. Changes to the previous version of the manuscript
are indicated with the phrase *change*.
Title page
- *change* the corresponding author’s address has changed recently. We have changed this in the
manuscript and author affiliations, retaining the affiliation where most of the work was
conducted.
Abstract
- *change* we have re-written the abstract. In particular, we ensure that we draw the focus on
our work and not so much on real pedestrian dynamics. We also explicitly state the limitation
and interpretation of our approach. The relevant sentences read (lines 27-30):
‘Our experiment is not a direct test of behaviour in real evacuations, but it does highlight the role
different types of information and stress play in real human decision-making in a virtual
environment. Our findings may be useful in identifying topics for future study on real human crowd
movements or for developing more realistic agent-based simulations.’
Introduction
- *change* re-written the sentence
‘Here, we investigate tactical level route choices of individuals in crowd evacuations.’
To
‘The research presented here is motivated by the tactical level route choices individuals may have to
make in crowd evacuations.’ (line 50)
- *change* re-written the sentence
‘Here, we explicitly investigate what information individuals rely on to make tactical-level route
decisions: static aspects of the environment or dynamic aspects of the environment or both.’
To
1
route decisions: static aspects of the environment or dynamic aspects of the environment or both.’
(lines 71-73)
- *change* we have completely re-written the paragraph on lines 75ff. The section stating the
limitation and interpretation of our work reads as follows:
‘However, we stress that it is important not to over-interpret findings from this type of research. To
date, it has not yet been established to what extent human decision-making in virtual environments
(including the experiment presented here) extends to the real world. Our experiment is not designed
to be a direct test of real pedestrian dynamics in a real environment. Instead, we suggest our work
contributes in three ways to our understanding of human decision-making and crowd behaviour.
Firstly, in our computer-based experiment we are able to fully and securely control the environment
participants perceive in a way that is not possible in experiments with real crowds. This allows us to
investigate particular aspects of human route choice in isolation and our findings thus present novel
insights into real human decision-making, albeit limited to this specific context. Secondly,
experiments with large real crowds are typically expensive and time consuming and obtaining
detailed data presents logistical and technical difficulties [4, 6]. There are many different scenarios
in crowd evacuations that merit our attention. Our approach arguably offers a fast and cost-
effective way to develop an intuition for what aspects of behaviour could have important effects on
evacuation dynamics. Therefore, our findings could aid in the selection of topics that should be
studied in more realistic experiments in real environments. In addition, our findings could also
potentially be used to inform the formulation of theoretical crowd movement models [4, 6]. Thirdly,
the data analysis methods we present here can be applied to data obtained from experiments with
real crowds or even real emergencies and this part of our work is therefore generally applicable.’
- Lines 119-121:
‘While our approach does not establish exactly how humans behave under stress in real evacuations,
it nevertheless allows us to develop an intuition for how time pressure affects real human decision-
making.’
Discussion
- *change* we deleted the last sentences of the first paragraph in the discussion and instead
inserted an entire paragraph on the limitation and interpretation of our experiment (lines 344-
350):
‘Computer-based experiments are no replacement for evacuation drills or observational data from
real emergencies. We make no claims that our findings on human route choice in virtual
environments also extend to human route choice in real environments. Therefore, our experiment
should not be interpreted as a direct test of pedestrian evacuation dynamics in real environments.
Instead, our work contributes novel insights into human decision-making via an abstracted route
choice task in a virtual environment. Below, we explain in more detail the relevance and limitations
of this type of experimental approach, and how the results of such studies are best interpreted.’
- *change* we move the paragraph starting ‘When considering the information individuals based
their route decisions on,…’ to earlier in the discussion, to increase emphasis on differences
between our virtual environment and the real world (lines 352ff). This paragraph contains a
statement on one use for our approach:
‘As mentioned in the introduction, we suggest that considering the expense and potential ethical
issues of real evacuation drills with volunteers, experiments such as ours could aid the selection of
topics for further study in more life-like experiments from a large set of initial hypotheses.’
- The paragraph starting with ‘One fundamental difference between our experiments and real
crowd evacuations lies in the movement dynamics at the start of the evacuation. …’ highlights
another difference between our approach and real-world evacuations (lines 398ff). The last
sentences also state a use for and re-iterate the main limitation of our approach:
‘The model selection we use here could also be used to study queue formation events and more
generally it could be applied to different types of data, such as individual decisions during
evacuation trials or even in real emergencies. This would also help to address the question of the
extent to which our findings can be extrapolated to real crowd evacuations.’
2
- *change* we have re-written the paragraph on how our work could aid model formulation
(lines 415):
‘While we cannot guarantee that our findings accurately reflect the route choices of pedestrians in
real environments, they provide an empirically founded starting point for algorithms modelling
dynamic route choice in humans that is different from ad-hoc implementations of individual-level
decisions (e.g. [9]). Such algorithms are important for designing simulation models for crowd
movement in egress that are already routinely used in building and event planning [6]. However, it
is important to note that any simulation model used in this way requires validation against
empirical data on real crowd movement [4, 6].’
3
Society Open
