Shrinking fish: comparisons of prehistoric and
contemporary salmonids indicate decreasing size at age
across millennia
Pablo Turrero, Eva García-Vázquez, Carlos Garcia de Leaniz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140026.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140026
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 May 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140026.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision.
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper, and reads well. However, I think that some revisions are needed to
clarify the authors’ findings and their implications. 1. The main findings of this study are that: i)
In this study, it is not possible to determine whether size at marine ages has changed between
prehistoric and contemporary fish because size at these ages differs strongly between the two
Salmo species and the species composition of the prehistoric sample is not known. ii) size at
freshwater ages 1-3 is greater in the prehistoric sample than in the contemporary sample. iii) the
greater size at age in freshwater for prehistoric fish reflects differences in length established
before age 1. No differences in freshwater growth are evident after age 1. The authors clearly state
these points but appear to stray from them at some points in the paper, e.g.: lines 17-19, 176-178,
2. Based on the results in Table 3, the authors conclude that there was a decrease in mean size at
age between 20-12 ka and 12-6 ka before present. However, it is not possible to determine the
extent to which this difference reflects differences in the age composition and marine versus
freshwater composition of these samples. Based on the aged fish (32 of 40 fish), the earlier
samples contain higher proportions of older fish and marine fish (which both tend to be larger).
(The authors do note that the differences in age are not statistically significant, but differences in
age will still contribute to the differences in length.) 3. I am missing something in the statistical
analyses. Sizes at age 1.1 of contemporary Atlantic salmon and brown trout are each compared
separately to the prehistoric fish in lines 157-159. Based on Table 4, there are 2 prehistoric fish and
6 contemporary fish (presumably combined Atlantic salmon and brown trout). These sample
sizes are too small to yield the degrees of freedom reported in these lines (16 modern fish would
be required given 2 prehistoric fish). Similarly, the numbers are too low in the 1.2 comparisons
(only 2 fish missing). 4. The authors refer to estimating fish length from vertebral size as back-
calculation. I initially found this confusing. To a fish biologist, back-calculation refers to
estimating the length of an individual at ages earlier than the age at capture based on
measurements of the radii of annual rings in scales or otoliths (or potentially vertebrae). 5. I am
not familiar with the use of vertebral dimensions to estimate fish length in archaeological studies.
The authors should state the assumptions underlying this technique. A key assumption must be
that this relationship is conservative, i.e. it does not vary much from population to population.
Otherwise, a relationship developed using one population or group of populations may produce
biased results when applied to a different population or group of populations. How strong is the
support for this assumption? 6. I think that possible causes of the difference between prehistoric
and modern size at freshwater ages should be discussed more fully. The authors suggest two
possible (but not mutually exclusive) explanations: fisheries-induced evolution of smaller size
and recent changes in the freshwater habitat affecting density dependent growth. The authors
had expected that prehistoric exploitation “would have affected larger fish disproportionately
more than smaller ones” (lines 57-58), but they found that differences in size-at-age were
established by age 1with no differences in growth rate evident at older ages. What are the
implications for mechanisms of fisheries-induced evolution? In terms of effects of environmental
changes on density-dependent growth, why would these changes affect growth only prior to age
1? Also, if salmon are currently in decline in this region (line 224), would density-dependent
declines in growth be expected in modern salmon. Are density-independent effects of
environmental conditions (e.g. water temperature) another possible explanation? If so, why
would they only affect growth prior to age 1? Is it possible that the difference in size at age 1
reflects differences in hatching size or size at yolk absorption rather than differences in
subsequent growth? That is, could this early difference in size at age reflect differences in egg
sizes resulting from differences in life-history strategies (e.g., maturation at earlier ages and
smaller sizes in modern salmon, r versus K life history strategies, etc). Might such differences
result from differences in mortality schedules, e.g. due to exploitation or environmental change?
Finally, how do the sizes of the prehistoric fish in freshwater compare to variation in size at age in
contemporary populations of Salmo? Are they outside of or within the range of variation
observed today?
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear how to access the supporting data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors compared the size of vertebrae in Atlantic salmon and brown trout from freshwater
from various prehistoric samples with modern day fish and found a decrease in size over time.
This is not unexpected since the size of fish tends to decline with time because larger fish are
removed by the fishery. However, this is a useful contribution and I recommend publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
15-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Turrero
On behalf of the Editor,
I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140026 entitled "Shrinking fish:
comparisons of prehistoric and contemporary salmonids indicate decreasing size at age across
millennia" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that
you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately. To revise your manuscript, log into
http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author Centre, where you will find your
manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a
Revision." You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the
manuscript.
Instead, revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When
submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to
4
document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing
of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When
uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140026.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
This is an interesting paper, and reads well. However, I think that some revisions are
needed to clarify the authors’ findings and their implications.
1. The main findings of this study are that:
i) In this study, it is not possible to determine whether size at marine ages has changed
between prehistoric and contemporary fish because size at these ages differs strongly
between the two Salmo species and the species composition of the prehistoric sample is
not known.
ii) size at freshwater ages 1-3 is greater in the prehistoric sample than in the
contemporary sample.
iii) the greater size at age in freshwater for prehistoric fish reflects differences in length
established before age 1. No differences in freshwater growth are evident after age 1.
The authors clearly state these points but appear to stray from them at some points in
the paper, e.g.: lines 17-19, 176-178.
R.- The reviewer is right in that these sentences were somewhat misleading;
we have changed them to clearly state that size differences are significant only for
the freshwater phase. We did not find other instances of this throughout the text.
2. Based on the results in Table 3, the authors conclude that there was a decrease in
mean size at age between 20-12 ka and 12-6 ka before present. However, it is not
possible to determine the extent to which this difference reflects differences in the age
composition and marine versus freshwater composition of these samples. Based on the
aged fish (32 of 40 fish), the earlier samples contain higher proportions of older fish and
marine fish (which both tend to be larger). (The authors do note that the differences in
age are not statistically significant, but differences in age will still contribute to the
differences in length.)
R.- The decrease in average size at age is shown in Table 4 and Figure 1;
Table 3 instead summarizes the evolution of salmonid fisheries as a whole during
the Upper Palaeolithic. We included it more for archaeological/ethnographic
purposes than to prove the main point of this article, since we have previous
experience with archaeoichthyological research and find that this might help
disseminate our results to a wider audience by appealing to archaeologists, who
might not be very interested in the purely palaeontological/ecological implications
of our research.
3. I am missing something in the statistical analyses. Sizes at age 1.1 of contemporary
Atlantic salmon and brown trout are each compared separately to the prehistoric fish in
lines 157-159. Based on Table 4, there are 2 prehistoric fish and 6 contemporary fish
(presumably combined Atlantic salmon and brown trout). These sample sizes are too
small to yield the degrees of freedom reported in these lines (16 modern fish would be
required given 2 prehistoric fish). Similarly, the numbers are too low in the 1.2
comparisons (only 2 fish missing).
R: OK. The Reviewer is completely right. There was a mistake in the values
provided in the old version. We have done all the tests again with the PAST
software and give the correct values in the revised manuscript. The results have
not changed, though, the P-values being actually lower for all significant
comparisons.
4. The authors refer to estimating fish length from vertebral size as back-calculation. I
initially found this confusing. To a fish biologist, back-calculation refers to estimating
the length of an individual at ages earlier than the age at capture based on measurements
of the radii of annual rings in scales or otoliths (or potentially vertebrae).
R.- In this, we follow the previous literature, some of it cited in our article:
references 22, 23, 26, 33, 34. All of them call this technique back-calculation of fish
lengths.
5. I am not familiar with the use of vertebral dimensions to estimate fish length in
archaeological studies. The authors should state the assumptions underlying this
technique. A key assumption must be that this relationship is conservative, i.e. it does
not vary much from population to population. Otherwise, a relationship developed using
one population or group of populations may produce biased results when applied to a
different population or group of populations. How strong is the support for this
assumption?
R.- Again, in this we follow the previous literature. This technique has been
in use since the 1980s and is still being used; some of its assumptions and
shortcomings can be found in the references we provide, especially 33 and 34.
6. I think that possible causes of the difference between prehistoric and modern size at
freshwater ages should be discussed more fully. The authors suggest two possible (but
not mutually exclusive) explanations: fisheries-induced evolution of smaller size and
recent changes in the freshwater habitat affecting density dependent growth. The
authors had expected that prehistoric exploitation “would have affected larger fish
disproportionately more than smaller ones” (lines 57-58), but they found that
differences in size-at-age were established by age 1with no differences in growth rate
evident at older ages. What are the implications for mechanisms of fisheries-induced
evolution? In terms of effects of environmental changes on density-dependent growth,
why would these changes affect growth only prior to age 1? Also, if salmon are
currently in decline in this region (line 224), would density-dependent declines in
growth be expected in modern salmon? Are density-independent effects of
environmental conditions (e.g. water temperature) another possible explanation? If so,
why would they only affect growth prior to age 1? Is it possible that the difference in
size at age 1 reflects differences in hatching size or size at yolk absorption rather than
differences in subsequent growth? That is, could this early difference in size at age
reflect differences in egg sizes resulting from differences in life-history strategies (e.g.,
maturation at earlier ages and smaller sizes in modern salmon, r versus K life history
strategies, etc)? Might such differences result from differences in mortality schedules,
e.g. due to exploitation or environmental change? Finally, how do the sizes of the
prehistoric fish in freshwater compare to variation in size at age in contemporary
populations of Salmo? Are they outside of or within the range of variation observed
today?
R: OK. The Reviewer points out some very interesting points for the
Discussion and we have included them in the revised version. For example: the
density-independent effect of temperature is a factor that cannot be excluded as an
explanation for reduced size. Salmonids prefer oxygenated waters and dissolved
oxygen is negatively correlated with temperature, thus increased temperatures
would interfere negatively with salmonid growth, especially during early
development when they are buried in the substrate and oxygenated water is crucial
for them. Both hatching size and size at yolk sac reabsorption could be affected,
and this would be consistent with smaller sizes at age 1.
Reviewer: 2
The authors compared the size of vertebrae in Atlantic salmon and brown trout from
freshwater from various prehistoric samples with modern day fish and found a decrease
in size over time. This is not unexpected since the size of fish tends to decline with time
because larger fish are removed by the fishery. However, this is a useful contribution
and I recommend publication.
R: Although this will most certainly not get back to him or her, we would
like to thank this reviewer for the encouragement to publish our results.
Society Open
