Remote sensing and conservation of isolated indigenous
villages in Amazonia
Robert S. Walker, Marcus J. Hamilton, Aaron A. Groth
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140246.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140246
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140246.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very clear, interesting, and novel paper. It tackles an important policy and empirical
issue. I have two concerns that I think would be useful to address before publication. [1] Clarify
why/how they selected the five villages they analyzed. Any reader of this paper will obviously
ask the question of how representative the sample of uncontacted villages are of the population
of uncontacted villages? [2] I think they oversell the comparison of population density between
contacted and uncontacted groups; after all they have a tiny sample of uncontacted villages (5). I
would be more convinced of the difference if -- in addition to what they do -- they also selected
five contacted villages that approximated the uncontacted villages in, say distance to nearest
town, river, # of houses, and # of clearings -- something to make the comparison a bit more
controlled
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Richard Bribiescas)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an important and elegant report outlines how modern current technology can be deployed
to aid in both conservation and scientific research. The authors are very well qualified to make
these assessments and make clear, conservative interpretations of the use of satellite imagery,
acknowledging for strengths and limitations. My one question is whether there is any present
way of accessing infrared satellite imagery to get a more refined sense of population size.
However I understand that while this technology exists, it may not be available to researchers at
this time
label_end_comment
Decision letter
07-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Walker
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140246 entitled
"Remote sensing and conservation of isolated indigenous villages in Amazonia" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below. The reviewers and Subject
Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your
manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140246.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
Dear editor and reviewers, We are pleased to respond to the referees’ comments concerning the
manuscript “Remote sensing and conservation of isolated indigenous villages in Amazonia”. It is
encouraging that the general response was positive towards our attempts to locate and study the
population of 5 isolated villages and compare them to other Brazilian indigenous villages. What
follows is a line by line response to each concern. An attempt has been made to closely follow
suggestions made by the referees. Responses to Reviewer #1: [1] Clarify why/how they selected
the five villages they analyzed. Any reader of this paper will obviously ask the question of how
representative the sample of uncontacted villages are of the population of uncontacted villages?
We have added several sentences explaining why we ended up with 5 isolated villages in our
sample. Basically, these are the villages that are most monitored consistently by FUNAI and
hence have population estimates from overflights. There are more isolated villages that we have
found with satellite imagery but independent estimates of population, like we have from FUNAI
overflights for these 5 villages, is unavailable to us. [2] I think they oversell the comparison of
population density between contacted and uncontacted groups; after all they have a tiny sample
of uncontacted villages (5). I would be more convinced of the difference if -- in addition to what
they do -- they also selected five contacted villages that approximated the uncontacted villages in,
say distance to nearest town, river, # of houses, and # of clearings -- something to make the
comparison a bit more controlled. We agree. In a perfect world we could model statistically the
factors that affect low vs high population density of villages. However, as we tried to lay out in
the Discussion, there are likely many factors that lead to higher density and nearly all are quite
difficult to quantify for even contacted villages (even more so for the isolated villages). Future
work however would like to tackle this problem, especially by quantifying a latent factor that
might be called “acculturation”, i.e., villages that get churches, soccer fields, tractors, and
chainsaws start to spread out, not surprisingly. Response to Reviewer #2: My one question is
whether there is any present way of accessing infrared satellite imagery to get a more refined
sense of population size. However I understand that while this technology exists, it may not be
available to researchers at this time. This is a great suggestion and we have added a sentence to
this effect in the Discussion when mentioning future direction. Other remote sensing techniques
like infrared, Lidar, aerial surveillance, or facial recognition may also prove useful in the near
future provided ethical concerns are adequately addressed. In sum, hopefully you agree that
suitable corrections have been made in response to the comments made by the referees. Sincerely,
Rob Walker Marcus Hamilton Aaron Groth
Society Open
