Site-specific structural order in Alzheimer's Aß42 fibrils
Hongsu Wang, Yoon Kyung Lee, Christine Xue and Zhefeng Guo
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180166.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180166
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 February 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 31 May 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180166.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The study by Wang et al. uses EPR to describe structural order, essentially the position of
secondary structure elements using EPR spectroscopy. Each residue on abeta1-42 is mutated to a
cysteine and then a spin label is attached. From fitting the spectra the strength of the interaction
between labels is determined which is strongest in highly ordered beta-sheets.
They find beta-sheets at positions 2-7, 10-13, 17-20, 31-36, 39-41 at variance of what was found by
Wälti et al. 2–6, 15–18, 26–28, 30–32, and 39–42. This may be due to polymorphism.
This is an interesting piece of work. However, there seems to be no control confirming that all 42
mutants have the same structure (are the same polymorph). In fact it is well known that 1-residue
mutants of abeta may have a dramatically different structure and a number of such mutants is
know to lead to polymorphs that promote early-onset Alzheimer disease. Therefore there is no
warranty that the data of the different mutants may be combined to yield the Rosetta model of
Figure 3a). Only if the authors provide this proof, I could support publication.
Further points:
-the authors indeed discuss polymorphism in the context of the published structures plotted in
Figure 3. But they do not mention the important info that it is known that Wälti and Colvin
looked at essentially the same polymorph (see the comparison in Meier, B.H., Riek, R.,
Böckmann, A., 2017. Emerging Structural Understanding of Amyloid Fibrils by Solid-State NMR.
Trends Biochem Sci 42, 1–11. doi:10.1016/j.tibs.2017.08.001) while Gremer has a different
polymorph as seen in the NMR fingerprints.
-in Figure 3 only monomers are shown. It is however known that Wälti, Colvin and Gremer
looked at fibrils with a dimer per layer as also described in their papers. Therefore, dimers should
be presented where applicable
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors present a well-designed study to characterize the structural details and site-specific
order of Aß42 fibrils using site-directed spin labeling and EPR spectroscopy. The study
addresses an important topic since Aß42 plays a key role during Alzheimer’s disease
progression and is a major target for drug development. Overall, the study is technically sound
and clearly presented with conclusions supported by the data. Especially noteworthy is that the
authors identified 5 ß strands of Aß42 with two new N-terminal ß strands not well defined by
previous studies. Below are a few minor issues that need to be clarified in order to help the
readers fully comprehend the paper:
1. Page 5: The authors state that only two studies of Aß42 have well defined N-terminal region
so far, i.e. this work and Gremer et al. The authors need to provide more details of the findings in
Gremer et al. and the differences between the two structural models.
2. Could the authors speculate the significance of the two N-terminal ß strands in terms of Aß
fibril structure and disease progression?
3. For ß strand 31-36, residue 33 appears to have weak exchange; it is better to provide possible
explanations in the paper.
4. Figure 2: It is better to specify how x and y are determined for the EPR spectra with strongest
spin exchange interactions.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180166.R0)
16-May-2018
Dear Dr Guo,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180166 entitled
"Site-specific structural order in Alzheimer’s Aß42 fibrils" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Please pay particular attention to the following concern of reviewer 1: "However,
there seems to be no control confirming that all 42 mutants have the same structure (are the same
polymorph)." To be able to fully accept your manuscript, it is crucial that this concern is
satisfactorily addressed.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
4
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180166
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 25-May-2018). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
5
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
6
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Erika Mancini (Associate Editor) and Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study by Wang et al. uses EPR to describe structural order, essentially the position of
secondary structure elements using EPR spectroscopy. Each residue on abeta1-42 is mutated to a
cysteine and then a spin label is attached. From fitting the spectra the strength of the interaction
between labels is determined which is strongest in highly ordered beta-sheets.
They find beta-sheets at positions 2-7, 10-13, 17-20, 31-36, 39-41 at variance of what was found by
Wälti et al. 2–6, 15–18, 26–28, 30–32, and 39–42. This may be due to polymorphism.
This is an interesting piece of work. However, there seems to be no control confirming that all 42
mutants have the same structure (are the same polymorph). In fact it is well known that 1-residue
mutants of abeta may have a dramatically different structure and a number of such mutants is
know to lead to polymorphs that promote early-onset Alzheimer disease. Therefore there is no
warranty that the data of the different mutants may be combined to yield the Rosetta model of
Figure 3a). Only if the authors provide this proof, I could support publication.
Further points:
-the authors indeed discuss polymorphism in the context of the published structures plotted in
Figure 3. But they do not mention the important info that it is known that Wälti and Colvin
looked at essentially the same polymorph (see the comparison in Meier, B.H., Riek, R.,
Böckmann, A., 2017. Emerging Structural Understanding of Amyloid Fibrils by Solid-State NMR.
Trends Biochem Sci 42, 1–11. doi:10.1016/j.tibs.2017.08.001) while Gremer has a different
polymorph as seen in the NMR fingerprints.
-in Figure 3 only monomers are shown. It is however known that Wälti, Colvin and Gremer
looked at fibrils with a dimer per layer as also described in their papers. Therefore, dimers should
be presented where applicable
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors present a well-designed study to characterize the structural details and site-specific
order of Aß42 fibrils using site-directed spin labeling and EPR spectroscopy. The study
addresses an important topic since Aß42 plays a key role during Alzheimer’s disease
progression and is a major target for drug development. Overall, the study is technically sound
and clearly presented with conclusions supported by the data. Especially noteworthy is that the
authors identified 5 ß strands of Aß42 with two new N-terminal ß strands not well defined by
previous studies. Below are a few minor issues that need to be clarified in order to help the
readers fully comprehend the paper:
7
1. Page 5: The authors state that only two studies of Aß42 have well defined N-terminal region
so far, i.e. this work and Gremer et al. The authors need to provide more details of the findings in
Gremer et al. and the differences between the two structural models.
2. Could the authors speculate the significance of the two N-terminal ß strands in terms of Aß
fibril structure and disease progression?
3. For ß strand 31-36, residue 33 appears to have weak exchange; it is better to provide possible
explanations in the paper.
4. Figure 2: It is better to specify how x and y are determined for the EPR spectra with strongest
spin exchange interactions.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180166.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180166.R1)
31-May-2018
Dear Dr Guo,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Site-specific structural order in
Alzheimer’s Aß42 fibrils" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
8
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Erika Mancini (Associate Editor) and Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Professor Erika Mancini):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
endix A
onse to reviewer’s comments
We thank the reviewers for their review and comments. We have revised our manuscript
dingly. Detailed below are our point-by-point responses.
ewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
tudy by Wang et al. uses EPR to describe structural order, essentially the position of
dary structure elements using EPR spectroscopy. Each residue on abeta1-42 is mutated to a
ine and then a spin label is attached. From fitting the spectra the strength of the interaction
en labels is determined which is strongest in highly ordered beta-sheets.
find beta-sheets at positions 2-7, 10-13, 17-20, 31-36, 39-41 at variance of what was found by
et al. 2–6, 15–18, 26–28, 30–32, and 39–42. This may be due to polymorphism.
is an interesting piece of work. However, there seems to be no control confirming that all 42
nts have the same structure (are the same polymorph). In fact it is well known that 1-residue
nts of abeta may have a dramatically different structure and a number of such mutants is know
d to polymorphs that promote early-onset Alzheimer disease. Therefore there is no warranty
he data of the different mutants may be combined to yield the Rosetta model of Figure 3a).
if the authors provide this proof, I could support publication.
Response: We have added a detailed discussion on how we addressed the potential
lication of fibril polymorphism on our EPR analysis. This is added to paragraph 2, page 5, and
d below for the convenience of reading.
“Fibril polymorphism may pose a potential complication for the analysis of the EPR data.
Because spin labels were introduced for EPR studies, it is possible that spin labeling could
cause the formation of a different fibril polymorph. Ideally, this should be investigated with
another technique that has sufficient structural resolution to distinguish different fibril
polymorphs. In the case of Aß40 fibrils, quiescent and agitated conditions produce fibrils
with different morphologies as revealed by transmission electron microscopy [18,24,25]. We
have previously shown that spin-labeled Aß42 fibrils have similar morphology as the wild-
type fibrils [8]. However, similar morphology between the fibrils of Gremer et al. [17] and
the fibrils of Xiao et al. [13], Wälti et al. [14], and Colvin et al. [15] suggest that
transmission electron microscopy may not have the distinguishing power for Aß42 fibril
polymorphism. Our approach for this potential complication is to emphasize the overall
trend of spin exchange interactions among adjacent labeling sites, rather than the absolute
value of spin exchange frequency at a particular site. One example of this strategy is the
G33R1 mutant. The EPR spectrum of G33R1 (Figure 1) and the quantitative analysis of spin
exchange interactions (Figure 2) show weak spin exchange interactions. This might be
because G33R1 formed fibrils of a different structure in which residue 33 is located at a
disordered region. But its neighboring residues on both sides (residues 32 and 34) have
strong spin exchange interactions (Figure 2). Therefore, we interpret site 33 as part of a ß-
strand that runs from residues 31 to 36. This issue is similarly addressed in our Rosetta
modeling, during which the secondary structure information from EPR was used in
combination of full-atom Rosetta energy functions [8], and the final structure was not
simply dictated by EPR data.”
er points:
uthors indeed discuss polymorphism in the context of the published structures plotted in
e 3. But they do not mention the important info that it is known that Wälti and Colvin looked
entially the same polymorph (see the comparison in Meier, B.H., Riek, R., Böckmann, A., 2017.
ging Structural Understanding of Amyloid Fibrils by Solid-State NMR. Trends Biochem Sci 42,
. doi:10.1016/j.tibs.2017.08.001) while Gremer has a different polymorph as seen in the NMR
rprints.
Response: We have added additional discussion and referenced Meier et al. (Trends
hem Sci 2017) regarding the similarities and differences of these polymorphs. This is added in
raph 1, page 5, and copied below for the convenience of reading.
“Detailed chemical shift comparisons by Wälti et al. [14] and Colvin et al. [15] suggest that
their structural models of Aß42 fibrils are essentially the same as the one reported by Xiao et
al. [13]. Further comparison of the models by Wälti et al. [14] and Colvin et al. [15] shows
that these two models are of the same polymorph [23]. The structure of Gremer et al. [17] is
of another polymorph due to vastly different fibril preparation conditions.”
gure 3 only monomers are shown. It is however known that Wälti, Colvin and Gremer looked
rils with a dimer per layer as also described in their papers. Therefore, dimers should be
nted where applicable
Response: We have revised Figure 3 to show dimer structures of Wälti et al., Colvin et al.
remer et al. Figure 3 is also copied below for the reviewer’s convenience.
2
wer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
uthors present a well-designed study to characterize the structural details and site-specific
of Aß42 fibrils using site-directed spin labeling and EPR spectroscopy. The study addresses
portant topic since Aß42 plays a key role during Alzheimer’s disease progression and is a
r target for drug development. Overall, the study is technically sound and clearly presented
conclusions supported by the data. Especially noteworthy is that the authors identified 5 ß
ds of Aß42 with two new N-terminal ß strands not well defined by previous studies. Below are
minor issues that need to be clarified in order to help the readers fully comprehend the paper:
Page 5: The authors state that only two studies of Aß42 have well defined N-terminal region
, i.e. this work and Gremer et al. The authors need to provide more details of the findings in
er et al. and the differences between the two structural models.
Response: We have now provided structural details and differences between the structure of
er et al and our Rosetta model in paragraph 1, page 6. The revised text is copied below for the
wer’s convenience.
“Gremer et al. [17] showed that N-terminal residues participate in a hydrophobic cluster
consisting of residues A2, F4, L34, and V36. In our Rosetta model, the N-terminal region is
stabilized by electrostatic interactions among residues E3, R5, D7, E11, and H13.”
Could the authors speculate the significance of the two N-terminal ß strands in terms of Aß
structure and disease progression?
Response: We have now added discussion on potential role of the N-terminal ß-strands in
bril structure in paragraph 1, page 6. The added discussion is copied below for the reviewer’s
enience.
“Due to the lower structural order of ßN1 and ßN2 than other ß-strands, the N-terminal ß-
strands likely play a less critical role in the structural stability of Aß42 fibrils. Based on our
Rosetta model and the lack of contacts between N-terminal region and the rest of the fibril
core from solid-state NMR studies [13–15], we speculate that the N-terminal strands may
modulate the packing between Aß42 protofilaments.”
For ß strand 31-36, residue 33 appears to have weak exchange; it is better to provide
ble explanations in the paper.
Response: We have clarified this in paragraph 2, page 5. The revised text is copied below
e reviewer’s convenience.
“The EPR spectrum of G33R1 (Figure 1) and the quantitative analysis of spin exchange
interactions (Figure 2) show weak spin exchange interactions. This might be because G33R1
formed fibrils of a different structure in which residue 33 is located at a disordered region.
But its neighboring residues on both sides (residues 32 and 34) have strong spin exchange
interactions (Figure 2). Therefore, we interpret site 33 as part of a ß-strand that runs from
residues 31 to 36.”
3
Figure 2: It is better to specify how x and y are determined for the EPR spectra with
gest spin exchange interactions.
Response: We have clarified how x and y are determined for the EPR spectra with strong
exchange interactions in the legend of Figure 2. The revised text is copied below for the
enience of reading.
“For EPR spectra with strong spin exchange interactions, x and y would converge to a single
inflection point. For the strongest spin exchange interactions, the low-field feature to the left
of the center peak is completely smoothed out, and the single-line ratio would be arbitrarily
set at 0.5.”
4
Society Open
