Parental and offspring larval diets interact to influence life-
history traits and infection with dengue virus in Aedes
aegypti
Kylie Zirbel, Bradley Eastmond and Barry W. Alto
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180539.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180539
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 13 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180539.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Michael Reiskind)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review of “Parental larval diet influences life history traits and dengue virus infection of
offspring in Aedes aegypti.” By Zirbel et al. RSOS-180539.
First, let me note that I am a secondary reviewer, that is this manuscript has already been
reviewed and responded to by the authors. I do not personally like this position, so I will keep
my comments very general about the overall impact of the research.
Can the authors provide a proper hypothesis in the introduction? In a manuscript, the idea that
the purpose is just “to investigate whether…” seems pretty flat. How about, “In this study, we
tested the hypothesis that parental larval environment affects larval and adult characteristics in
off-spring that have epidemiological consequences for the transmission of disease. From this
hypothesis, and based upon prior work on the effects of larval environment on mosquito vector
biology, we predict…”
I don’t know when this was done, but F4 from a collection in 2012 is pretty low passage if this
was done in the past 3 years.
I HATE the first paragraph of the results, which is really just restating the experimental design. I
think this belongs in the methods, under “Statistical Analyses.” Also, I found that paragraph
super confusing.I think it will help to have a stronger, clearer hypothesis in the introduction, to
guide the reader through these predictions. Anyway, they don’t belong here.
I don’t understand the conclusions from the paragraph (p9) that starts “While parental
nutrition…” It seems like the opposite—I might attribute the higher survival in LH mosquitoes
to some epigenetic tradeoff, such that low nutrient parents lay eggs with lower thresholds for
development, but maybe at some other cost, measured or not. There is evidence from other
systems (like women in Amsterdam during the Nazi occupation) to suggest that there can be
changes in development that prepare off spring for lower nutritive environments. Maybe that is
at play here.
The paragraph on gut flora seems extraneous to the story, and I would remove it.
Is there enough data for a stronger conclusion? Could one estimate the impact of parental
generation larval nutrition on vectorial capacity? Or at least verbally describe what might be
going on? That is, what is the sum effect, in words more specific than “These results suggest that
parental larval nutrition is important to Ae. aegypti female offspring.”
Overall, this is a original and interesting article.
One super minor point I happened to notice. The green in African green monkey cells should not
be capitalized, unless “Green” is someone’s name or a place (which I don’t think it is).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see document provided (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180539.R0)
04-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Zirbel
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180539 entitled
"Parental larval diet influences life history traits and dengue virus infection of offspring in Aedes
aegypti" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180539
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Jun-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
5
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
on behalf of Prof. Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Editor comments:
Please ensure that you fully respond to all the referee's commentary.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of “Parental larval diet influences life history traits and dengue virus infection of
offspring in Aedes aegypti.” By Zirbel et al. RSOS-180539.
First, let me note that I am a secondary reviewer, that is this manuscript has already been
reviewed and responded to by the authors. I do not personally like this position, so I will keep
my comments very general about the overall impact of the research.
Can the authors provide a proper hypothesis in the introduction? In a manuscript, the idea that
the purpose is just “to investigate whether…” seems pretty flat. How about, “In this study, we
tested the hypothesis that parental larval environment affects larval and adult characteristics in
off-spring that have epidemiological consequences for the transmission of disease. From this
hypothesis, and based upon prior work on the effects of larval environment on mosquito vector
biology, we predict…”
I don’t know when this was done, but F4 from a collection in 2012 is pretty low passage if this
was done in the past 3 years.
I HATE the first paragraph of the results, which is really just restating the experimental design. I
think this belongs in the methods, under “Statistical Analyses.” Also, I found that paragraph
super confusing.I think it will help to have a stronger, clearer hypothesis in the introduction, to
guide the reader through these predictions. Anyway, they don’t belong here.
I don’t understand the conclusions from the paragraph (p9) that starts “While parental
nutrition…” It seems like the opposite—I might attribute the higher survival in LH mosquitoes
to some epigenetic tradeoff, such that low nutrient parents lay eggs with lower thresholds for
development, but maybe at some other cost, measured or not. There is evidence from other
systems (like women in Amsterdam during the Nazi occupation) to suggest that there can be
changes in development that prepare off spring for lower nutritive environments. Maybe that is
at play here.
The paragraph on gut flora seems extraneous to the story, and I would remove it.
Is there enough data for a stronger conclusion? Could one estimate the impact of parental
generation larval nutrition on vectorial capacity? Or at least verbally describe what might be
going on? That is, what is the sum effect, in words more specific than “These results suggest that
parental larval nutrition is important to Ae. aegypti female offspring.”
Overall, this is a original and interesting article.
One super minor point I happened to notice. The green in African green monkey cells should not
be capitalized, unless “Green” is someone’s name or a place (which I don’t think it is).
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see document provided
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180539.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180539.R1)
13-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Zirbel,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Parental and offspring larval diets
interact to influence life history traits and dengue virus infection of offspring in Aedes aegypti" is
now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Elena Falco
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Mr Andrew Dunn):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Appendix A
Parental larval diet influences life history traits…. Royal Society Open Access
With few minor exceptions, the authors did a thorough job of responding to
previous reviews. However, this reviewer still has some concerns with the
presentation of this manuscript.
The data describes the effect of parental larval diet and the subsequent interaction
with offspring larval diet on the life history traits and susceptibility to dengue-1 of
Ae. aegypti mosquitoes. The title should reflect this interaction, as it only makes
reference to the parental larval diet.
My major issue with this manuscript is the way the statistical methods are described
and the subsequent explanation of the results. The methods should be explained in a
way that they are independent of the SAS PROC (for example, why GLIMMIX rather
than GLM?). The results are presented so technically that it is hard to follow what is
being compared. Reviewers previously suggested more clarification. Inclusion of the
SAS code was helpful for people who program, but to broaden the impact of this
study, the methods should be still less technical, and more reproducible in less
proprietary software.
Figure 2 would be clearer as a table.
Another major concern is that the authors did not look at egg viability. As the
authors discuss, maternally derived egg nutrients are important, but this was not
assessed. This seems critical for the hypothesis presented.
Minor concerns:
Only one reference is given for the feeding regimen of the larva. Is oak leaves, tire
water, and dried crickets a standard feeding? Eggs hatch often in hours, thus would
larva not feed on yeast?
The loss of cartons – 2 of the high and 1 of the low. This is per larval offspring group
as per Figure 1. So there was really a loss of 4 cartons for the high parental group
and 2 for the low parental group. Please clarify, as this was confusing.
Transfering individuals from individual canisters to cartons – how was this done?
Ice? Does this affect survivorship?
Page 4: line44, explain the unit of “experimental replicate”
Provide justification for 1, 3 and 14 dpi .
On Page 5, line49-50 – if plaque assays were used to determine viral titers, why is
the unit PFUe?
Page 6, lines 16-20 – unclear what was pooled over which unit. Please clarify.
Figure 1 – defined HH, HL, etc.
Page 9, line 45 – I do not feel this study was biased by feeding rates. I think the
sample sizes generated took into account feeding rates and the term “bias” is unfair.
The authors should restate this caveat by carefully defining the group over which
their results could be extrapolated (e.g. “those females that fed to repletion”).
Page 10, line 44-43: The first sentence of this paragraph needs data references. The
second sentence about theoretical models suggesting a 2 day EIP should be removed
as there is no data to support this and this suggestion does not add to this paper
(nor would the removal of this detract from the results of this paper).
Evaluation of response to previous reviewers:
Major:
The previous reviewers make a good point regarding the extrapolation of results to
processes of the innate immune system of the mosquito. I agree with these
reviewers that the data herein does not directly test nor should it speak to these
processes. Thus, I agree that discussion of the immune system of the mosquito
should be, at best, cursory, and that the data of this study cannot be used to support
supposition or hypotheses of the immune system. (It can raise the hypothesis that
needs to be tested, but should not try to answer the question.)
Minor:
Reviewer comment re: Line 306 – the authors provide additional explanation
regarding HH vs. HL dissemination. However, as stated above, the explanation is still
unclear (see general concern above).
The title is also still an issue (discussed above).
Stats methods (see above).
pendix B
e 12, 2018
al Society Open Science Manuscript ID #RSOS-180539
r Dr. Kevin Padian,
se see below for a list of the reviewer comments received for our manuscript #RSOS-180539
led to “Parental and offspring larval diets interact to influence life history traits and in
gue virus in Aedes aegypti.” After each comment, we offer our response and detail changes
have been made to the manuscript. Additionally, a marked up copy of the manuscript has
n included to clearly show the changes that have been made in case our explanation is
lear.
VIEWER 1: Can the authors provide a proper hypothesis in the introduction? In a
uscript, the idea that the purpose is just “to investigate whether…” seems pretty flat. How
ut, “In this study, we tested the hypothesis that parental larval environment affects larval and
lt characteristics in off-spring that have epidemiological consequences for the transmission of
ase. From this hypothesis, and based upon prior work on the effects of larval environment
mosquito vector biology, we predict…”
SPONSE: Our hypothesis was added in the introduction as suggested to create a stronger
uscript.
VIEWER 1: I don’t know when this was done, but F4 from a collection in 2012 is pretty low
sage if this was done in the past 3 years.
SPONSE: A low passage line was intentionally used for this study which was completed in
4.
VIEWER 1: I HATE the first paragraph of the results, which is really just restating the
erimental design. I think this belongs in the methods, under “Statistical Analyses.” Also, I
nd that paragraph super confusing. I think it will help to have a stronger, clearer hypothesis in
introduction, to guide the reader through these predictions. Anyway, they don’t belong here.
SPONSE: The paragraph was deleted from the results section. The hypotheses contained in
paragraph were moved to the introduction and the explanation of the comparisons made was
ved to the methods section under “Statistical Analyses.”
VIEWER 1: I don’t understand the conclusions from the paragraph (p9) that starts “While
ntal nutrition…” It seems like the opposite—I might attribute the higher survival in LH
quitoes to some epigenetic tradeoff, such that low nutrient parents lay eggs with lower
sholds for development, but maybe at some other cost, measured or not. There is evidence
m other systems (like women in Amsterdam during the Nazi occupation) to suggest that there
be changes in development that prepare offspring for lower nutritive environments. Maybe
is at play here.
SPONSE: In this study, we found that LH offspring displayed higher survivorship to
lthood than HH offspring although the difference was not significant. Both treatments
layed similar development times and female sizes which serve as indicators for thresholds
development. An epigenetic trade-off between development and survivorship may explain
e results and this was added to the paragraph.
VIEWER 1: The paragraph on gut flora seems extraneous to the story, and I would remove it.
SPONSE: This was changed as suggested.
VIEWER 1: Is there enough data for a stronger conclusion? Could one estimate the impact of
ntal generation larval nutrition on vectorial capacity? Or at least verbally describe what
ht be going on? That is, what is the sum effect, in words more specific than “These results
gest that parental larval nutrition is important to Ae. aegypti female offspring.”
SPONSE: The current study measured components of vector competence (susceptibility to
ction and disseminated infection), but not other parameters of vectorial capacity. So, we are
able to estimate parental effects on vectorial capacity. We have now added a statement to the
clusion to describe the possible role that parental and larval diet effects may have for
torial capacity. Additionally, we feel that the first sentence of the conclusion is concise and
vides insight on the role of mosquito nutrition and condition of offspring, including
porting information from the literature. “In summary, nutritional quality behaves as
dicted for a stressor in which it is expected that good condition parents will produce high
lity offspring and poor condition parents will produce lower quality offspring [2, 69-70].”
VIEWER 1: One super minor point I happened to notice. The green in African green monkey
s should not be capitalized, unless “Green” is someone’s name or a place (which I don’t think
).
SPONSE: This has been changed from “Green” to “green.”
VIEWER 2: The data describes the effect of parental larval diet and the subsequent
raction with offspring larval diet on the life history traits and susceptibility to dengue-1 of Ae.
ypti mosquitoes. The title should reflect this interaction, as it only makes reference to the
ntal larval diet.
SPONSE: The title has been changed as requested.
VIEWER 2: My major issue with this manuscript is the way the statistical methods are
cribed and the subsequent explanation of the results. The methods should be explained in a
that they are independent of thee SAS PROC (for example, why GLIMMIX rather than
M?). The results are presented so technically that it is hard to follow what is being compared.
iewers probably suggested more clarification. Inclusion of the SAS code was helpful for
ple who program, but to broaden the impact of this study, the methods should be still less
nical, and more reproducible in less proprietary software.
SPONSE: We have now included a statement for the choice of GLIMMIX rather than GLM
rding analysis of viral titer. We have included additional information on the experimental
p, so it is easier (less technical) to follow what is being compared (Statistical Analyses
ion of Materials and Methods). Our addition of a description of comparisons being made
uld enable reproducibility in less proprietary software than SAS. We have now rephrased the
sentence of the Results section (Viral titer and Dissemination) to explain treatment effects
pendent of the SAS procedure (e.g., GLIMMIX).
VIEWER 2: Figure 2 would be clearer as a table.
SPONSE: Descriptive statistics as they relate to life history traits can be found in table 1
ch should address this comment. The bivariate plot provided in Figure 2 is to provide visual
esentation of the two traits that contributed most to significant parental treatment effects.
VIEWER 2: Another major concern is that the authors did not look at egg viability. As the
ors discuss, maternally derived egg nutrients are important, but this was not access. This
ms critical for the hypothesis presented.
SPONSE: There are many different potential mechanisms that have been suggested for
erating parental effects. The objective of this study was to determine whether or not parental
al nutrition influenced offspring life history traits and susceptibility to infection with dengue
s. In terms of parental effects specifically, we hypothesized that offspring from poor nutrient
nts would have decreased fitness correlates and greater susceptibility to infection with
gue virus relative to offspring from high nutrient parents. We found evidence to suggest that
ntal nutrition does influence offspring life histories and infection with virus however these
cts are context dependent. We discuss egg resource allocation and epigenetic imprinting as
ntial mechanisms for these effects. Considerations of egg viability were beyond the scope of
present study given that we specifically measured life and virus history parameters in
pring. As such, we were only interested in offspring that successfully hatched from eggs.
subsequent study conducted on maternal and paternal larval nutrition effects on eggs in
es aegypti, we measured egg count, size, protein content, and lipid content as a way to
ress this concern, however, these results have not yet been published.
VIEWER 2: Only one reference was given for the feeding regiment of the larva. Is oak
es, tire water, and dried crickets a standard feeding? Eggs hatch often in hours, thus would
a not feed on yeast?
SPONSE: This feeding regimen was used to simulate the nutrient conditions experienced by
quito larvae in the wild. We cited the Daugherty et al. (2000) because we followed the
hods established for drying and preparing the oak leaves and crickets. Some of the larvae
ly did feed on limited amounts of yeast post-hatch, however, we tried to minimize this by
ing the larvae after the 24-hour period.
VIEWER 2: The loss of cartons -2 of the high and 1 of the low. This is per larval offspring
up as per Figure 1. SO there was really a loss of 4 cartons for the high parental group and 2
the low parental group. Please clarify, as this was confusing.
SPONSE: Two high food parental containers were lost and one low food parental container
lost during the parental generation phase of the experiment. The loss of these parental
tainers resulted in four fewer offspring containers from high food parents and two fewer from
food parents than was anticipated. The text was clarified as suggested.
VIEWER 2: Transferring individuals from individual canisters to cartons- how was this done?
Does this affect survivorship?
SPONSE: Individuals were transferred using a handheld battery powered aspirator. In this
eriment, we did not see any mortality as a result of using this transfer method. The method of
sfer was added to the manuscript.
VIEWER 2: Page 4, line 44, explain the unit of experimental replicate
SPONSE: This was revised as suggested to better explain the experimental design and an
itional reference to figure 1 was provided.
VIEWER 2: Provide justification for 1, 3, and 14 dpi
SPONSE: These time points were specifically selected because when challenged with a
gue infectious blood meal, differential expression of Toll pathway related genes was
tified by Ramirez and Dimopoulos (2010). This information was added to the manuscript.
itionally, the 24-hour time point also gives an indication as to the amount of virus imbibed
ng blood feeding.
VIEWER 2: On page 5, line 49-50 – if plaque assays were used to determine viral titers, why
e unit PFUe?
SPONSE: This was poorly written and has been revised for accuracy. Plaque assays were
d to quantify 10 fold serial dilutions of dengue-1 virus. RNA was then extracted from these
tions, after which qRT-PCR was used to develop a standard curve to identify PFUe used to
ntify viral titer in mosquito tissues.
VIEWER 2: Page 6, lines 16-20- unclear what was pooled over which unit. Please clarify.
SPONSE: This was revised as suggested.
VIEWER 2: Figure 1- defined HH, HL, etc.
SPONSE: Figure 1 was adjusted to provide more clearly define HH, HL, etc.
VIEWER 2: Page 9, line 44-43: The first sentence of this paragraph needs data references.
second sentence about theoretical models suggesting a 2 day EIP should be removed as there
o data to support this and this suggestion does not add to this paper (nor would the removal of
detract from the results of this paper.)
SPONSE: We have replaced the reference with an improved reference regarding the EIP in
first sentence. The second sentence about theoretical models suggesting a 2-day EIP has been
ted.
VIEWER 2: The previous reviewers make a good point regarding the extrapolation of results
rocesses of the innate immune system of the mosquito. I agree with these reviewers that the
herein does not directly test nor should it speak to these processes. Thus, I agree that
ussion of the innate immune system of the mosquito should be, at best, cursory, and that the
of this study cannot be used to support supposition or hypotheses of the immune system. (It
raise the hypothesis that needs to be tested, but should not try to answer the question.)
SPONSE: The manuscript has been revised as suggested in areas where discussions of the
te immune system are not cursory.
VIEWER 2: Line 306- the authors provide additional explanation regarding HH vs. HL
emination. However, as stated above, the explanation is still unclear.
SPONSE: This comment is specifically referring to the previously submitted manuscript
ore it was revised. As such the line number no longer corresponds to the current submitted
uscript. We found that larval nutrition (PxF1) did not significantly affect virus dissemination
ffspring. We did see a potential trend in the data in which HH offspring demonstrated
ginally significantly different rates of infection relative to LH offspring (not HL). The
ence explaining the midgut escape barrier has been revised to improve clarity.
VIEWER 2: The title is also still an issue (discussed above).
SPONSE: The title has been changed as suggested.
VIEWER 2: Stats methods (see above).
SPONSE: We have responded to the request for improved description of the statistical
hods in an earlier section.
believe that we have addressed these comments sufficiently and that the revised manuscript
been greatly improved. Thank you for your time and consideration.
cerely,
ie E. Zirbel
versity of Florida
ida Medical Entomology Lab
9th Street SE
o Beach, FL 32962
Society Open
