The minimum number of rotations about two axes for
constructing an arbitrarily fixed rotation
Mitsuru Hamada
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140145.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140145
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
st
1 revised submission: 01 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
nd
2 revised submission: 26 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 28 October 2014
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140145.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper provides a significant algorithm for finding the optimal decomposition of an arbitrary
rotation with respect to rotations about two fixed axes. As the author has mentioned, the
theoretical bounds for such decompositions are already known. The major contribution of this
paper is to establish an algorithm for achieving these theoretical bounds. Also along the
construction of this algorithm, the paper provides another proof for these bounds. The algorithm
presented in this paper is a significant tool for researchers in the several fields including quantum
computation and information.
The paper is overall well-written. I have the following suggestions for the author.
1. Since the major contribution of this paper is the decomposition algorithm, I strongly suggest
that the author provides a pseudo-code of the algorithm at the end. The inputs of this code are
the parameters of the rotation U as in Definition 1 (page 6) and the vectors m^ and n^. Then the
code explicitly provides the parameters of the optimal decomposition of U with respect to the
input parameters. This way, the paper would be more valuable for the researcher and it is much
easier to verify the algorithm and its performance.
2. I do not see any reason for “Competing Interest” section at the last page. I strongly suggest this
section removed from the paper. Already in Introduction (page 2 lines 20-24), the author has
mentioned the mistake in some literature regarding the optimal bound. I think that is enough.
3. It seems that Sections 2.3 and 2.4 and Appendix A are some standard material that are
provided for the sake of the completeness of the paper. I suggest that this fact be mentioned with
some reference to relevant literature.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Comments to the Author(s)
1) There is a problem and there is a solution and this is the most important point about any
publication. So, I support it.
However, in the recent years there was a serious progress in finding explicit solutions of the
decomposition of the rotations with respect to three and two - axes, see:
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/jgsp/jgsp_files/vol33/Brezov_MM.djvu
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/jgsp/jgsp_files/vol30/Brezov_Paper.djvu
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/jgsp/jgsp_files/vol28/BMM_j_28n.djvu
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/proceedings/Proceedings_files/vol1/GEOM09.DJVU
and this should be commented in the paper.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
24-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Hamada,
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140145 entitled
"The Minimum Number of Rotations About Two Axes for Constructing an Arbitrarily Fixed
Rotation" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that
3
you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140145.R1 (Revision)
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140145.R1)
See Appendix A.
Decision Letter (RSOS-140145.R1)
20-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Hamada
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140145.R1
entitled "The Minimum Number of Rotations About Two Axes for Constructing an Arbitrarily
Fixed Rotation" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
4
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that
you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be
able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to the Author
Dear author,
Thanks for your revised version. Before we can accept your paper for publication, please send us
a new revised version of your article according to the following suggestions:
1) delete your appendix entitled: "Comments on references from a Reviewer".
2) add the main part of this appendix to the main text of the article (for instance, in the
introduction), explaining that you are commenting on articles which dealt with similar questions.
Keep ONLY the paragraphs (conveniently edited if you wish) from the one starting with: "While
the situation assumed..." until the paragraph ending with: "can be found in [10],[11],[12])." So: 1)
delete all comments saying that you do this because a referee asked you to do so, and 2) avoid the
last paragraph on Ref. K 1999 if you don't find any relation with your work.
Instead, please explain this in a letter for the referee.
Many thanks,
5
label_version_3
RSOS-140145.R2 (Revision)
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140145.R2)
See Appendix B.
Decision Letter
28-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Hamada,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The Minimum Number of Rotations
About Two Axes for Constructing an Arbitrarily Fixed Rotation" is now accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science. You can expect to receive a proof of your article within
approximately 10 days. Please contact the editorial office (openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid
publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may
experience a delay in publication. Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous
publication model (http://bit.ly/cpFAQ).
Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this will be the final version of
the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers. As the issue version of your
paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to check your proofs
thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published. In order to raise the profile of
your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your paper to selected colleagues.
If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with the name and email
addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Charlotte Wray
charlotte.wray@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS’ COMMENTS ON ‘THE MINIMUM
NUMBER OF ROTATIONS ABOUT TWO AXES FOR
CONSTRUCTING AN ARBITRARILY FIXED ROTATION’
MITSURU HAMADA
First of all, I thank the reviewers for sparing precious time for reviewing my
manuscript. Though the revision is minor, to clarify that I have followed all sug-
gestions of the reviewers and editor, I shall respond to all comments of reviewers
one by one.
1. Response to Reviewer 1’s Comments to the Author
After presenting positive comments, the reviewer gave the three specific sugges-
tions for me to which I respond below.
Reviewer’s Suggestion 1. Since the major contribution of this paper is the de-
composition algorithm, I strongly suggest that the author provides a pseudo-code
of the algorithm at the end. The inputs of this code are the parameters of the
rotation U as in Definition 1 (page 6) and the vectors m^ and n^. Then the code
explicitly provides the parameters of the optimal decomposition of U with respect
to the input parameters. This way, the paper would be more valuable for the re-
searcher and it is much easier to verify the algorithm and its performance.
Response. Thanks to this suggestion, I have an opportunity to add Appendix G,
which contains a pseudo-code or what I call a ‘Procedure for Obtaining an Optimal
Decomposition.’
Reviewer’s Suggestion 2. I do not see any reason for Competing Interest section
at the last page. I strongly suggest this section removed from the paper. Already
in Introduction (page 2 lines 20-24), the author has mentioned the mistake in some
literature regarding the optimal bound. I think that is enough.
Response. I followed this.
Reviewer’s Suggestion 3. It seems that Sections 2.3 and 2.4 and Appendix A are
some standard material that are provided for the sake of the completeness of the pa-
per. I suggest that this fact be mentioned with some reference to relevant literature.
Response. Please see the newly added footnote 3 in the revised version. It
describes sources, i.e., specific chapters of Refs. [3] and [4], of all objects treated in
Sections 2.3, 2.4, and Appendix A.
(The objects include R^y (<U+03B8>) and R^z (<U+03B8>) in Appendix A. Though a secondary point,
I mention that I needed to devise the method described in Appendix A for use in
1
2 MITSURU HAMADA
my algorithm. The need must have become clear by adding Appendix G, which
contains a pseudo-code for this method, represented by c~(a~, ß~, lx , ly , lz ).)
2. Response to Reviewer 2’s Comment to the Author
Reviewer’s Comment. There is a problem and there is a solution and this is
the most important point about any publication. So, I support it. However, in
the recent years there was a serious progress in finding explicit solutions of the
decomposition of the rotations with respect to three and two - axes, see:
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/jgsp/jgsp files/vol33/Brezov MM.djvu
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/jgsp/jgsp files/vol30/Brezov Paper.djvu
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/jgsp/jgsp files/vol28/BMM j 28n.djvu
http://www.bio21.bas.bg/proceedings/Proceedings files/vol1/GEOM09.DJVU
and this should be commented in the paper.
Response. Please see that I have made references to these four papers, and added
a section entitled ‘Comments on References of a Reviewer’ at the end of the man-
uscript.
(Time for revision is limited to 7 days, most of which I had to spend in writing
the pseudo-code, so my understanding of these papers is not enough. But open
debate is encouraged by this journal, so possible misunderstanding of mine, if any,
would be corrected.)
(Though mentioning this is a trifle, a reason why the last reference of the reviewer
is placed separately from my original list, which is now augmented with the above
other three references, is primarily that I think that this material for conference
proceedings is remote from the present manuscript’s issue as described below. It
seems that the work considers a very different situation where the coordinate frame
itself is rotated, and rotations are about any of the three standard coordinate axes.
Thus, I could not find any relation to our issue. And the material seems like an
expository text on applications of quaternions. However, I did not use quaternions
but Pauli matrices. Because of these differences, adding this work to the list would
be confusing.)
3. Summary of Changes I Made
The changes that I made are the following:
• Appendix G and Footnote 3 have been added.
• Refs. [10],[11],[12] have been added.
• Section entitled ‘Comments on References of a Reviewer,’ which contains
the other reference of the Reviewer 2, has been added.
• Section entitled ‘Competing Interest’ has been removed.
• Few slight changes at the level of fixing typos.
RESPONSE TO EDITOR’S REQUESTS ON THE OCT. 1
VERSION OF ‘THE MINIMUM NUMBER OF ROTATIONS
ABOUT TWO AXES FOR CONSTRUCTING AN ARBITRARILY
FIXED ROTATION’
MITSURU HAMADA
1. Response Overall
I thank the reviewers and editors for sparing their precious time for reviewing
and handling my manuscript. I have followed all of the following requests made in
the decision letter:
• 1) delete your appendix entitled: ”Comments on references from a Re-
viewer”.
• 2) add the main part of this appendix to the main text of the article (for in-
stance, in the introduction), explaining that you are commenting on articles
which dealt with similar questions.
Keep ONLY the paragraphs (conveniently edited if you wish) from the
one starting with: ”While the situation assumed...” until the paragraph
ending with: ”can be found in [10],[11],[12]).”
• So: 1) delete all comments saying that you do this because a referee asked
you to do so, and 2) avoid the last paragraph on Ref. K 1999 if you don’t
find any relation with your work. Instead, please explain this in a letter for
the referee.
2. Specific Responses and Remark
2.1. Response to Request 1). I followed this.
2.2. Response to Request 2). The ‘main part’ was added to the main text, as
new Section 7 ‘Comments on Articles [10,11,12]’ placed after the conclusion section.
(For the positioning, sectioning, and entitling, I followed the style of publication
of this journal. Specifically, please see the style of an article by Aleksandrova, NI,
‘Asymptotic formulae for the Lommel and Bessel functions and their derivatives,’
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140176.)
The first couple of sentences of Section 7, which are a paraphrase of what was
stated in the original manuscript, is for ‘explaining that I am commenting on articles
which dealt with similar questions.’ Here, being ‘similar’ has been expressed in
terms of mathematical equations for clarity and objectiveness. The other part
beginning with ‘Naturally’ exactly contains the contents of the indicated part of
the previous version (plus a few words that play roles of conjunctions), i.e., the
above underlined part, which is slightly edited.1
1In particular, the 4th sentence was moved to the beginning.
1
2 MITSURU HAMADA
The first couple of sentences of Section 7 can be said to be a conjunctive part
between the original main text and the comments on the series of the papers. I did
the best to make the connection smooth.
2.3. Response to ‘So’ 1). The desired situation is automatically in our presence
by the fulfilment of Request 1) above and my obeying the 2nd sentence of Request
2).
2.4. Response to ‘So’ 2). This was also automatically fulfilled by the fulfilment
of Request 1) above and my obeying the 2nd sentence of Request 2). But in case
of need, I shall respond directly to the last part of ‘So’ 2) below.
That I do not find any relation of Ref.K1999 to my issue was already
written in that deleted paragraph, and this was explained in the previous
response. Below, this explanation is repeated (with some parenthetical
words added):
It seems that Ref. K1999 (Kuipers) considers a very different situation
where the coordinate frame itself is rotated, and rotations are about
any of the three standard coordinate axes. Thus, I could not find any
relation to our issue. And the material seems like an expository text on
applications of quaternions (not a review, judging from that no reference
was made to original papers). However, I did not use quaternions but
Pauli matrices. Because of these differences, adding this work to the list
would be confusing.
2.5. Remark. In the first decision letter, the request regarding [10,11,12] (plus
K1999) was to:
add +comment on the advances in all the references pointed out
by the second referee · · · .
Of course, the above changes preserve my adherence to this request, where ‘all the
references’ are now [10,11,12].
I understand that the revision this time is for the editorial purposes (which is
left to me since only I can do that technically). And I paid considerable attention
to the style of the journal.
Also, I, as the author, should add nothing substantially new, nor do I wish so.
Hence, the added conjunctive text is a paraphrase of some of the original text. [As
for the choice of the phrase ‘comment(s) on,’ it was repeatedly used in the request
in the two decision letters, which include the review reports.]
3. Summary of Changes I Made Since the Initial Submission
The changes that I made to the original manuscript are the following (this list
has been amended to reflect the second revision):
• Appendix G, Section 7, and Footnote 3 have been added.
• Refs. [10],[11],[12] have been added.
• Section entitled ‘Competing Interest’ has been removed.
Society Open
