Health at the ballot box: disease threat does not predict
attractiveness preference in British politicians
Gustav Nilsonne, Adam Renberg, Sandra Tamm, and Mats Lekander
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160049.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160049
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160049.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, clear from paper.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The article "Health at the ballot box: Disease threat does not predict attractiveness preference in
British politicians" by Nilsonne et al. reports a cross-sectional study of the members of the House
of Commons from England and Wales using publicly available sexiness ratings against infant
mortality, life expectancy and self-rated health.
The paper is well written and motivated and the study is somewhat interesting.
The results however, do not point toward any significant correlation. All the beta values reported
were extremely low, irrespective of their sign. I am afraid, it will not be proper to point towards
any conclusions from the results. It seems that this is indeed what the authors wanted to show, a
contradiction to the results of Ref. 15.
The paper can be accepted.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Steven Neuberg)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes. The authors provide a web link in the references to their data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Extending research by White et al. (2013) and Zebrowitz et al (2015), the research reported here
investigates whether disease threat predicts voting preferences for more-versus-less attractive
British politicians. The authors find little evidence of this: the effect using one indicator of disease
threat is marginally significant in the predicted direction, but the effects using the other two
indicators were nonsignificant and in the opposite direction.
3
(The authors should probably mention the Zebrowitz replication in the Introduction rather than
consigning it to the Discussion; readers should know that more than one research team has found
evidence for the hypothesis under consideration.)
This study appears to be competently done, which raises the question of how one reconciles the
competing findings. I think several points are worth considering.
First, as a general statement, it seems useful to distinguish between tests of theory and test of
application. The White et al paper in particular focused on the former, exploring the potential
effects of disease vulnerability on the attractiveness-leadership link both correlationally (using
real world disease and election data, as was done here) and experimentally (by manipulating
participants’ senses of disease threat). The experimental findings, in particular, tell us that
perceived disease threat CAN moderate the attractiveness-leadership link. That’s important. Of
course, they don’t tell us how large such effects will be in a real world where many factors drive
decisions as potentially complex as for whom to vote. That some real-world findings don’t show
such a moderating effect isn’t surprising to me; such non-findings don’t mean that disease
concerns aren’t operating, but only that they’re not readily observable given the other particular
factors in play.
In light of the above, I wonder if a particular feature of the current method (versus the White et al
method) could have played an important role in the different findings. Specifically, White et al
acquired attractiveness ratings of the politicians from respondents who were unlikely to know of
the candidates, thereby creating an independence of the attractiveness rating and the voting
preference: In one study, for example, undergraduate research assistants from a single state
university rated U.S. politicians from across the entire country, whereas citizens from the
candidates’ legislative districts provided the votes; in another, residents primarily from the U.K.
provided attractiveness ratings of U.K. politicians (via the “SexyMP” website) while U.S.
residents who likely didn’t know of the candidates provided the “votes.” In contrast, the current
authors appear to have used U.K. residents both to provide the attractiveness ratings (from the
website) and to provide the votes. To the extent that website visitors may have been especially
likely to rate the attractiveness of politicians they knew of, and to the extent that additional
information about the candidates (e.g., particular beliefs, home lives, history, etc.) informed their
attractiveness ratings (we know that objectively non-physical information shapes attractiveness
ratings), it may be that the attractiveness ratings in the current study (compared to in the White et
al studies) may have been a less pure indicator of the fitness relevant cues that the evolved
behavioral immune system would be especially sensitive to—thereby reducing the likelihood that
disease threat could shape vote preferences. Granted, this is speculation, but perhaps worth
considering.
In all, this research should be in the literature for researchers to contemplate, although a
somewhat deeper consideration of why these findings don’t match well the findings from the
other two labs would be useful.
Steven L. Neuberg, Ph.D.
Foundation Professor of Psychology
Arizona State University
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160049)
18-Feb-2016
Dear Dr Nilsonne
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160049 entitled
"Health at the ballot box: Disease threat does not predict attractiveness preference in British
politicians" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160049
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
5
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-Feb-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160049)
Dear Mr. Dunn,
Thank you for your quick decision on our manuscript. We are pleased to submit it with revisions.
I am uploading a file with the changes marked in yellow.
Following Dr. Neuberg's comments, we have made the following changes:
- Moved the text about the Zebrowitz et al. paper to the introduction
- Expanded the discussion about why our results differ from those of earlier studies, to state
clearly that we think cross-cultural differences or a false positive finding in White et al. may be
explanations. We also discuss the possibility raised by Dr. Neuberg that differences in how well
known the politicans were to the raters colud play a role. In the spirit of scientific openness
shown by Dr. Neuberg in signing his review, I thought I should mention explicitly that this idea
brought forward by him. I hope he will not mind. Of course, we have unfortunately no way of
knowing to what extent the members of parliament were known to their raters and we therefore
take recourse to an argument of probability.
As requested, we have also added sections about ethical approval etc. The data and code are
openly available as indicated in the manuscript.
Best wishes,
Gustav Nilsonne
Society Open
