Dental ontogeny and replacement in Pliosauridae
Judyth Sassoon , Davide Foffa and Ryan Marek
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150384.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150384
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 August 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 30 September 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 October 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150384.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (James Neenan)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very good and important study that uses micro-CT scanning and 3D reconstruction
techniques to show, for the first time, how tooth replacement occurred in pliosaurs. On the whole
I feel the study is complete and almost ready for publication. However I do have some minor (but
important) comments in the annotated pdf that I would like to see addressed. The text is clear
and concise and the figures are very attractive and clear.
The references do need checking, however. For example, Neenan et al. 2014 is given as both
reference number 17 and 45.
I wish the authors luck with their publication and look forward to seeing the final, published
version.
James Neenan
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Torsten Scheyer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I have no major comments and all my other (all minor) comments and suggestions are made
directly within the PDF.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150384)
18-Sep-2015
Dear Mr Foffa
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150384 entitled
"Dental ontogeny and replacement in Pliosauridae" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
3
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150384
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-Sep-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Julia Brenda Desojo):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Dear Author
please find comments and suggestions made by both reviewers directly within the PDF files.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I have no major comments and all my other (all minor) comments and suggestions are made
directly within the PDF.
5
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very good and important study that uses micro-CT scanning and 3D reconstruction
techniques to show, for the first time, how tooth replacement occurred in pliosaurs. On the whole
I feel the study is complete and almost ready for publication. However I do have some minor (but
important) comments in the annotated pdf that I would like to see addressed. The text is clear
and concise and the figures are very attractive and clear.
The references do need checking, however. For example, Neenan et al. 2014 is given as both
reference number 17 and 45.
I wish the authors luck with their publication and look forward to seeing the final, published
version.
James Neenan
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150384
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150384
MS Title: Dental ontogeny and replacement in Pliosauridae
MS Authors: Sassoon, Judyth; Foffa, Davide; Marek, Ryan
Contact Author: Davide Foffa
Contact Author Email: davidefoffa@gmail.com
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Edinburgh
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: United Kingdom
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code:
Keywords: Pliosauridae, tooth replacement, dental ontogeny, CT scans, digital models,
Sauropterygia
Abstract: Dental morphology and patterns of tooth replacement in representatives of the clade
Pliosauridae (Reptilia, Sauropterygia) are evaluated in detail. The jaws of one basal and two
derived species were visualised by CT scans and the ontogenetic patterns, or “movement paths”,
of replacement teeth could be mapped. Other specimens with well-preserved jaws containing
functional and replacement teeth in situ were also examined directly and waves of tooth
replacement could be inferred from the degree of in situ tooth development and the fusion
between functional and replacement alveoli. The analysis revealed symmetrical tooth eruption
over the medial axis throughout the length of the jaw in the basal pliosaurid Thalassiodracon. In
contrast symmetrical tooth eruption patterns occur only along the anterior sections of the jaws of
derived pliosaurids. In Pliosaurus, replacement schedules differ in the anterior and posterior
portions of the jaws and appear to correlate with differences in tooth morphology and
symmetrical replacement. The anterior teeth exhibit longer replacement cycle periods and
symmetrical replacement , while shorter cycle periods and asymmetry are seen posteriorly. A
longer period suggests slower replacement and is characteristic of large, specialised caniniform
teeth in the longer-snouted Late Jurassic taxa. Smaller posterior teeth have a shorter period and
therefore a faster replacement cycle. The transition from long to short replacement period over
the length of the jaw is thought to account for the loss of symmetry. This differentiation could
relate to differential tooth function and a type of heterodonty. We therefore propose a new model
of pliosaurid tooth replacement patterns and present it in a phylogenetic context.
EndDryadContent
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150384)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Please find attached a list of the amendments we made to the original submission.
Summary:
• The jaws of one basal (Thalassiodracon hawkinsii) and two derived species (Pliosaurus
westburyensis, Pliosaurus kevani) were visualised by µCT scans and the ontogenetic patterns,
or “movement paths”, of replacement teeth could be mapped. Other specimens (belonging to
Peloneustes philarchus and Pliosaurus westbuyensis).
We added the specific name of the taxa we studied in the paper.
Introduction
Paragraph1:
• ‘All reptiles, including extinct forms studied to date, renew their dentition continuously
throughout life (polyphyodonty) (1, 2).’ Instead of:
‘All reptiles, including presumably extinct forms, renew their dentition continuously
throughout life (polyphyodonty) (1, 2).’
Paragraph2:
• ‘such as varanid lizards, and anguinomorph lizards (4, 11), theropod and sauropod dinosaurs
(12, 13). ‘ Instead of:
‘such as varanid anguinomorph lizards (4, 11), and theropod and sauropod dinosaurs (12,
13).’
• ‘Eosauropterygia’ instead of ‘Sauropterygia’
Paragraph3:
• ‘in Sauropterygia’ instead of ‘in the Sauropterygia’
• ‘(Pliosauridae ’ and ‘within Plesiosauria’ replaced ‘(Family Pliosauridae’ and ‘in the Order
Pliesiosauria’
• Individual pliosaurid teeth have been described and figured in detail since the earliest days of
palaeontology. The eponymous genus Pliosaurus (22) includes Late Jurassic pliosaurids on
the basis of teeth with a trihedral cross-section (22, 23, 24, Table 2) and the holotype of
Liopleurodon ferox is a single, large tooth (25). Also tooth durability has made them
important elements in recording pliosaur occurrences in the absence of more complete
remains.
This sentence was changed to answer a reviewer comment about the taxonomy of Pliosaurus.
Trihedral teeth are still currently one of the autapomorphies of the genus Pliosaurus. We
reckon that our previous version of the sentence casted doubts about the validity of this
character. This is however beyond the purpose of this paper, so we rephrase this sentence to
the current format.
Final Paragraph:
• We added a reference to a new supplementary figure depicting the phylogenetic
relationships of the taxa we studied.
‘Perhaps’ added.
Material and Methods
• Simolestes vorax italics
• µCT throughout the text
Result
Section 4.1
• ‘within each specimen’ was added at the end of the sentence ‘The proportion of dentine to
enamel varies in different teeth’
Section 4.2.1
• ‘Alveolar bone is deposited resorbed when a tooth is shed and redeposited when a new tooth
develops.’
Our CT scans are not detailed enough to show osteocyte lacunae, so we changed the sentence
accordingly
Section 4.2.2
• ‘and their roots occupy a considerable part of the jaw volume’ was added to the sentence
‘Alveoli accommodating the largest caniniform teeth are extraordinarily deep’ to explain the
use of the word ‘extraordinarly’.
• The world “crypt” was replaced by “alveoli” to prevent confusion and to maintain consistence
throughout the manuscript.
Section 4.3
• Benson and colleagues (19) (see also Fig. S1 in Supplementary Information).
• which accommodate variably seven or eight caniniform teeth.
The typo in the word “accommodate” was corrected.
• ‘whereas’ instead of ‘while’
Section 4.4
• ‘Replacement and functional teeth are distinguished by colour (as outlined in the figure
legends). ‘
The bracket was added to better explain our colour code which one reviewer felt could be
clarified for the benefit of the readers.
• ‘reconstructed into five stages’.
We added “into” which was missing in the previous version.
• ‘However, 34 replacement teeth were preserved and clearly visible in µCT scans (Fig. 7).’
We specified the number of replacement teeth as requested by the reviewers.
Discussion
• ‘large’ instead of ‘huge’
• ‘caniniform’ replaced the other variation of the terms for consistency
• This was observed in two specimens, Pliosaurus kevani and Peloneustes, and may occur more
generally within Pliosauridae.
We specified ‘within Pliosauridae’ as requested by one of the reviewer.
• ‘although some symmetry was also observed in placodonts (17).’
As one of the reviewer pointed out, our previous phrasing of the sentence seemed to suggest
that placodonts have symmetric replacement, while they only partially show a symmetric
replacement in the premaxillae.
• We deleted reference 45 because it was redundant with reference 17. We modified the
reference numbers of the following papers in the bibliography in the reference list and within
the manuscript.
Acknowledgments and Reference:
• We updated the acknowledgments to include the useful implements and comments by
reviewers
• The reference list was checked and formatting issues fixed in references 2, 4, 12, 27, 36, 39,
40, 45, 46, 47
Society Open
