Alcohol discrimination and preferences in two species of
nectar-feeding primate
Samuel R. Gochman, Michael B. Brown and Nathaniel J. Dominy
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160217.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160217
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 March 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 June 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 21 June 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160217.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes/yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Title: best restricted to ...in two species of nectar feeding primate
p. 2, l. 6. The recent literature documents dietary ethanol ingestion at low concentrations, but not
necessarily as an "important source of calories"
p. 2, l. 8. The prior loris result is better presented in intro, not abstract.
p. 3, l. 8. As before on calories; earlier literature suggests a variety of roles, including but not
predominated by the caloric value of ethanol.
p. 3, l. 38-42. This alcoholic sap is anthropogenically manipulated and maintained, so is not a
natural system.
p. 4, l. 20. "likely a spurious mutation"; why? Isn't its consequences what's being evaluated here?
p. 4, l. 33. The sucrose content data vary dramatically from the "low sugar reward of 2.8%";
please clarify. Possibly effects of fermentation?
p. 5, l. 3. ...are unknown...
p. 5, l. 23. What is the captive diet? How can alcohol exposure (e.g., within ripe fruits) necessarily
be excluded?
p. 6, l. 5. 99.5% ethanol is not pure 100%; please recalculate the presented ethanol levels
accordingly. Also, if stock solutions of sucrose and ethanol were made at the indicated
concentrations, then how could the sucrose percentage remain constant (l. 13) if aqueous ethanol
is then added to it? More details on the methods are required here.
p. 7, l. 24. no differential consumption among solutions [not variables]
p. 7, l. 28. The a priori characterization of 1% ethanol as low seems inappropriate; why not
simply treat alcohol concentration as a continuous variable? For the slow loris, categorical
designation of 1% as low and 2% as high seems particularly arbitrary. Lumping 0% and 1% is
also problematical. I encourage the authors to rethink the statistical analysis; Figure 3 is key here
as this may be widely replicated as evidence of primate attraction to alcohol, but embeds the
aforementioned problems.
p. 7, lines 47-57. This paragraph belongs in the methods, not results.
p. 9, l. 24. This sentence is probably unncessary given restrictions detailed in the following
sentences.
p. 9, l. 34. "sample bias"; vague, better draw attention just to the need for more phylogenetic
sampling, both at molecular and behavioral levels.
p. 9, l. 41, and elsewhere. ADH4 is only one of many enzymes involved in ethanol metabolism,
so the absence of the A294V mutation may be irrelevant if there is compensation elsewhere in the
3
pathway. A few sentences about the various ADH's and ALDH's known to occur in primates
would be useful.
p. 9, l. 52. Not so much preservation as presence of the mutation that is evidence.
Figure 2c; there appears to be an insect in the photo; perhaps worth pointing out that
invertebrates may also be attracted to fermenting nectar!
Figure 3. for mass designation (in the upper right corner), better ethanol mass, or consumed mass
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Christina Campbell)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a well written paper on an ever increasingly important topic. I only have minor
comments.
1. In the second paragraph in the Background Section, I strongly suggest that you clearly define
Robert Dudley's "Drunken Monkey Hypothesis" - as this really was the first hypothesis to
generate research on this topic, and make it clear that his hypothesis is NOT about the animals
getting drunk, but chronically consuming and seeking out low levels of ethanol.
2. On the page 4, line 39 - this is the first time you mention the slow loris in the main text and so
you should include the scientific name here.
3. In the methods section - please discuss why the volumes of solutions are different for the two
species.
4. In a more general statement, I would like you to tone down the importance of the Milton
paper - it is the only real article that refutes this whole idea and it is seriously flawed for two
reasons - one it is based on a questionnaire and not actual data, and 2. the questionnaire only
asked people to talk about signs of obvious intoxication - which is NOT what most of us who
study this subject think is important. Indeed we all think the overt intoxication is a very rare
event and irrelevant to Dudley's hypothesis.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160217)
18-May-2016
Dear Mr Gochman,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Alcohol discrimination and preferences of nectar-feeding
primates") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper
in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 10-Jun-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
5
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160217
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Title: best restricted to ...in two species of nectar feeding primate
p. 2, l. 6. The recent literature documents dietary ethanol ingestion at low concentrations, but not
necessarily as an "important source of calories"
p. 2, l. 8. The prior loris result is better presented in intro, not abstract.
p. 3, l. 8. As before on calories; earlier literature suggests a variety of roles, including but not
predominated by the caloric value of ethanol.
p. 3, l. 38-42. This alcoholic sap is anthropogenically manipulated and maintained, so is not a
natural system.
p. 4, l. 20. "likely a spurious mutation"; why? Isn't its consequences what's being evaluated here?
p. 4, l. 33. The sucrose content data vary dramatically from the "low sugar reward of 2.8%";
please clarify. Possibly effects of fermentation?
p. 5, l. 3. ...are unknown...
p. 5, l. 23. What is the captive diet? How can alcohol exposure (e.g., within ripe fruits) necessarily
be excluded?
p. 6, l. 5. 99.5% ethanol is not pure 100%; please recalculate the presented ethanol levels
accordingly. Also, if stock solutions of sucrose and ethanol were made at the indicated
concentrations, then how could the sucrose percentage remain constant (l. 13) if aqueous ethanol
is then added to it? More details on the methods are required here.
p. 7, l. 24. no differential consumption among solutions [not variables]
p. 7, l. 28. The a priori characterization of 1% ethanol as low seems inappropriate; why not
simply treat alcohol concentration as a continuous variable? For the slow loris, categorical
designation of 1% as low and 2% as high seems particularly arbitrary. Lumping 0% and 1% is
also problematical. I encourage the authors to rethink the statistical analysis; Figure 3 is key here
as this may be widely replicated as evidence of primate attraction to alcohol, but embeds the
aforementioned problems.
p. 7, lines 47-57. This paragraph belongs in the methods, not results.
p. 9, l. 24. This sentence is probably unncessary given restrictions detailed in the following
sentences.
p. 9, l. 34. "sample bias"; vague, better draw attention just to the need for more phylogenetic
sampling, both at molecular and behavioral levels.
p. 9, l. 41, and elsewhere. ADH4 is only one of many enzymes involved in ethanol metabolism,
so the absence of the A294V mutation may be irrelevant if there is compensation elsewhere in the
7
pathway. A few sentences about the various ADH's and ALDH's known to occur in primates
would be useful.
p. 9, l. 52. Not so much preservation as presence of the mutation that is evidence.
Figure 2c; there appears to be an insect in the photo; perhaps worth pointing out that
invertebrates may also be attracted to fermenting nectar!
Figure 3. for mass designation (in the upper right corner), better ethanol mass, or consumed mass
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a well written paper on an ever increasingly important topic. I only have minor
comments.
1. In the second paragraph in the Background Section, I strongly suggest that you clearly define
Robert Dudley's "Drunken Monkey Hypothesis" - as this really was the first hypothesis to
generate research on this topic, and make it clear that his hypothesis is NOT about the animals
getting drunk, but chronically consuming and seeking out low levels of ethanol.
2. On the page 4, line 39 - this is the first time you mention the slow loris in the main text and so
you should include the scientific name here.
3. In the methods section - please discuss why the volumes of solutions are different for the two
species.
4. In a more general statement, I would like you to tone down the importance of the Milton
paper - it is the only real article that refutes this whole idea and it is seriously flawed for two
reasons - one it is based on a questionnaire and not actual data, and 2. the questionnaire only
asked people to talk about signs of obvious intoxication - which is NOT what most of us who
study this subject think is important. Indeed we all think the overt intoxication is a very rare
event and irrelevant to Dudley's hypothesis.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160217)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160217.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
8
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
My prior concerns have been adequately addressed in revision.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160217.R1)
21-Jun-2016
Dear Mr Gochman,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Alcohol discrimination and
preferences in two species of nectar-feeding primate" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
My prior concerns have been adequately addressed in revision.
Dartmouth College HANOVER • NEW HAMPSHIRE • 03755-3547
Department of Anthropology • 6047 Silsby Hall • (603) 646-1849 • FAX: (603) 646-1140
UEL R. GOCHMAN email: samuel.r.gochman.18@dartmouth.edu
09 June 2016
Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Department of Integrative Biology
University of California, Berkeley
3060 Valley Life Sciences Building
Berkeley, CA 94720-3140
Re: Royal Society Open Science manuscript no. RSOS-160217
Dear Professor Padian:
We are grateful for the opportunity to revise and resubmit manuscript no. RSOS-160217, titled
"Alcohol discrimination and preferences in two species of nectar-feeding primate" by Samuel R.
Gochman et al. We appreciate and agree with the constructive comments of Reviewers 1 and 2
and we have revised our manuscript accordingly. In addition, we affirm compliance with all
required end-sections, including data accession in Dryad. Our response to each reviewer
comment is enumerated and detailed below:
Reviewer 1
1. Comment: Title: best restricted to ...in two species of nectar feeding primate
Our response: we agree with this suggestion and we have changed title to “Alcohol
discrimination and preferences in two species of nectar-feeding primates”
2. Comment: p. 2, l. 6. The recent literature documents dietary ethanol ingestion at low
concentrations, but not necessarily as an "important source of calories"
Our response: we agree with this suggestion and we have modified the text to read “a
supplemental source of calories”
3. Comment: p. 2, l. 8. The prior loris result is better presented in intro, not abstract.
Our response: Reviewer 1 makes a compelling suggestion, and we are generally in favor
of removing effusive sentences, but to delete this particular sentence would disguise some
of the underlying motivation for the study by Carrigan et al. and the present experiment,
which entails a slow loris (as outlined in the introduction). So, we would respectfully
request preservation of this sentence in the abstract.
4. Comment: p. 3, l. 8. As before on calories; earlier literature suggests a variety of roles,
including but not predominated by the caloric value of ethanol.
Our response: We agree that our earlier wording placed undue emphasis on the calorie
content of alcohol, and we have adjusted the sentence to read: “Mounting evidence
suggests that dietary ethanol, or alcohol, is a prevalent component in the natural diets of
nonhuman primates.”
5. Comment: p. 3, l. 38-42. This alcoholic sap is anthropogenically manipulated and maintained,
so is not a natural system.
Our response: We acknowledge the truth of this comment, and we have modified our text
to reflect this point: "This behaviour is marginally unnatural (the chimpanzees capitalise
on the presence of sap-collecting plastic containers [8]), but it indicates a proclivity for
alcohol and is therefore compatible with the adaptive hypothesis of Carrigan et al. [11]."
6. Comment: p. 4, l. 20. "likely a spurious mutation"; why? Isn't its consequences what's being
evaluated here?
Our response: Reviewer 1 is quite correct. This statement was intended as a narrative
device, a straw man of convenience. We have modified our text to better reflect our goal
of building narrative suspense: “Given that larvae are an improbable source of alcohol, it
is tempting to interpret the A294V transition of aye-ayes as a spurious mutation.”
7. Comment: p. 4, l. 33. The sucrose content data vary dramatically from the "low sugar reward
of 2.8%"; please clarify. Possibly effects of fermentation?
Our response: The liquid substance in the bracts of R. madagascariensis and its low
sucrose content are rather puzzling, and Reviewer 1 is astute to suggest fermentation. To
clarify our views on the uncertain origin, composition, and ecological importance of this
substance, we elaborated with the following text: "This description resembles accounts of
fermented nectar [32], but the extrafloral location and low sugar content is puzzling,
suggesting a distinct exudate. Alternatively, the bracts may accumulate excess or spilled
nectar, the sugar of which is diluted by rain or consumed by yeast during fermentation.
Access to one or both liquids raises the possibility that aye-ayes consume nontrivial
quantities of alcohol on a seasonal basis."
8. Comment: p. 5, l. 3. ...are unknown…
Our response: edit accepted
9. Comment: p. 5, l. 23. What is the captive diet? How can alcohol exposure (e.g., within ripe
fruits) necessarily be excluded?
Our response: comment accepted, with the following text added: “The diets of both
species contain chow gruel, mealworms, and a medley of ripe fruit, which is expected to
contain trace amounts of alcohol. Lifetime exposure to alcohol is therefore limited.”
10. Comment: p. 6, l. 5. 99.5% ethanol is not pure 100%; please recalculate the presented
ethanol levels accordingly. Also, if stock solutions of sucrose and ethanol were made at the
indicated concentrations, then how could the sucrose percentage remain constant (l. 13) if
aqueous ethanol is then added to it? More details on the methods are required here.
Our response: Reviewer 1 makes an important point here, and we must admit oversight.
To fully address this issue of transparency and reproducibility, we have added the
following text: "To simulate fermented nectars, we used these stock solutions to create
serial dilutions of pure (99.5%) ethanol (Fisher catalogue no. BP2818500). This protocol
simplified the daily on-site production of fresh solutions, but it has the disadvantage of
systematic imprecision. For instance, our serial dilutions of 1.0%, 3.0%, and 5.0% ethanol
2
in a solution of 14% sucrose are in fact dilutions of 0.995%, 2.985%, and 4.975% ethanol
in solutions of 13.86%, 13.58%, and 13.30% sucrose, respectively. Similarly, our serial
dilutions of 1.0%, 2.0%, and 4.0% ethanol in a solution of 10% sucrose are in fact dilutions
of 0.995%, 1.990%, and 3.980% ethanol in solutions of 9.9%, 9.8%, and 9.6% sucrose,
respectively."
11. Comment: p. 7, l. 24. no differential consumption among solutions [not variables]
Our response: edit accepted
12. Comment: p. 7, l. 28. The a priori characterization of 1% ethanol as low seems
inappropriate; why not simply treat alcohol concentration as a continuous variable? For the
slow loris, categorical designation of 1% as low and 2% as high seems particularly arbitrary.
Lumping 0% and 1% is also problematical. I encourage the authors to rethink the statistical
analysis; Figure 3 is key here as this may be widely replicated as evidence of primate attraction
to alcohol, but embeds the aforementioned problems.
Our response: this comment raises a statistical predicament. Reviewer 1 is quite correct in
Y by X views,
titled: Fithis/her but such
of proportion analysis with
anconsumed
mass Pageon
the slow loris data [which, recall, is based
by solution 1 five
of 6
trials only] is too underpowered and risks a type II error. A threshold between 1% and 2%
is not quite as arbitrary as it seems on the surface, as suggested in this plot:
Oneway Analysis of proportion mass consumed By solution
0.5
0.4
proportion mass consumed
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0% 1% 2% 4% All Pairs
solution Tukey-Kramer
0.05
It was on the basis of this plot that we binned 0% and 1% as "low concentrations" and 2%
and Oneway Anova
4% as "high concentrations", which we have since edited to "lower" and "higher"
Summary
concentrations Fit the grammar of relative differences. To preserve
of reflect
to better
analytical and
Rsquare
graphical symmetry, similar approach was applied to the aye-aye data.
a0.427563
weRsquare
In sum,Adj this comment by Reviewer 1, and we have definitely
respect and acknowledge0.320231
thought carefully about the
Root Mean Square Error analyses, as requested. In this case, however, we would
0.089687
to keep
prefer Mean our binned
of Response categories and 0.25corresponding statistical significance.
the
Observations (or Sum Wgts) 20
13. Comment: p. 7, lines 47-57. This paragraph belongs in the methods, not results.
Analysis of Variance
Sum of
Source DF Squares Mean Square F Ratio Prob > F
solution 3 0.09612867 0.032043 3.9836 0.0269*
3
Error 16 0.12870056 0.008044
C. Total 19 0.22482922
Our response: we agree that the first sentence is redundant with text in the preceding
methods section, and it is deleted. However, the ensuing sentence was edited for clarity
and retained as a formal result. “Covariation of the two measures, digital-probe-to-
mouth-events (DPMEs) and mass consumed, was nonlinear but highly predictive across
30 trials (R2 = 0.96; electronic supplementary material, figure S2), indicating that error
from spillage or miscounted DPMEs was distributed evenly through the experiment.”
14. Comment: p. 9, l. 24. This sentence is probably unnecessary given restrictions detailed in the
following sentences.
Our response: edit accepted, the sentence is deleted
15. Comment: p. 9, l. 34. "sample bias"; vague, better draw attention just to the need for more
phylogenetic sampling, both at molecular and behavioral levels.
Our response: we are in agreement, and we have modified the sentence accordingly:
"Third, our experiment suffers from limited sampling within the primate phylogeny, both
at the molecular and behavioral levels. It is unknown whether..."
16. Comment: p. 9, l. 41, and elsewhere. ADH4 is only one of many enzymes involved in ethanol
metabolism, so the absence of the A294V mutation may be irrelevant if there is compensation
elsewhere in the pathway. A few sentences about the various ADH's and ALDH's known to occur
in primates would be useful.
Our response: These suggestions are excellent, and we have complied with an economy of
text. This sentence now reads: "A similar preference for alcohol is perhaps likely given
that several species of monkey are attracted to alcohol despite lacking the A294V
mutation (e.g., baboons, vervets, macaques [review: 6]), suggesting that the A294V
mutation could be irrelevant if compensation exists elsewhere in the alcohol metabolic
pathway. ADH4 is merely one of many enzymes involved in alcohol metabolism.
17. Comment: p. 9, l. 52. Not so much preservation as presence of the mutation that is
evidence.
Our response: edit accepted, the sentence now reads: "A preference for alcohol among
aye-ayes is compatible with the hypothesis advanced by Carrigan et al. [11], i.e., that the
presence of the A294V mutation in a lineage is plausible evidence of fermented foods in
the diet."
18. Comment: Figure 2c; there appears to be an insect in the photo; perhaps worth pointing out
that invertebrates may also be attracted to fermenting nectar!
Our response: We agree! and the caption now includes this additional sentence: The
presence of a nitidulid beetle demonstrates the attraction of insects to fermented nectar;
it is also a potential vector of inoculation with yeast [32] (photograph by Annette
Zitzmann, reproduced with permission).
19. Comment: Figure 3. for mass designation (in the upper right corner), better ethanol mass, or
consumed mass
Our response: edit accepted
Reviewer 2
4
1. Comment: In the second paragraph in the Background Section, I strongly suggest that you
clearly define Robert Dudley's "Drunken Monkey Hypothesis" - as this really was the first
hypothesis to generate research on this topic, and make it clear that his hypothesis is NOT about
the animals getting drunk, but chronically consuming and seeking out low levels of ethanol.
Our response: we are in strong agreement with Reviewer 2 - Robert Dudley's Drunken
Monkey Hypothesis is often misunderstood. The problem, however, is that this particular
paragraph is very much focused on the hypothesis of Carrigan et al. in PNAS, and the
distinction between fermented fruits and exudates, which, in turn, enables a smooth
segue to the topic of exudates and aye-ayes. We are concerned about derailing this
paragraph for the sole purpose of providing clarifying text about another, albeit related
hypothesis. So, we are respectfully declining to accept this suggestion at this point in the
paper.
2. Comment: On the page 4, line 39 - this is the first time you mention the slow loris in the main
text and so you should include the scientific name here.
Our response: edit accepted
3. Comment: In the methods section - please discuss why the volumes of solutions are different
for the two species.
Our response: This difference was mandated by the veterinary staff of the Duke Lemur
Center, and therefore the IACUC of Duke University. The institutional rationale was that
the volume of solution should vary in proportion to body mass, and a slow loris is about
one-third the mass of an aye-aye. By way of explanation, we added this text: "We held
the volume of solution in each container constant at 25 ml (aye-ayes) or 10 ml (slow loris),
a difference that is proportional to the body masses of our study animals."
4. Comment: In a more general statement, I would like you to tone down the importance of the
Milton paper - it is the only real article that refutes this whole idea and it is seriously flawed for
two reasons - one it is based on a questionnaire and not actual data, and 2. the questionnaire
only asked people to talk about signs of obvious intoxication - which is NOT what most of us
who study this subject think is important. Indeed we all think the overt intoxication is a very
rare event and irrelevant to Dudley's hypothesis.
Our response: we are in strong agreement with Reviewer 2 - the Milton survey is glib and
counterproductive. Our citations to this study serve a structural purpose, to call attention
to scholarly debate, even if flawed. We have edited our second citation to subtly reveal
the gist and subjectivity of the paper without any overt denigration: We believe this will
help tone down the value of the Milton study, which is ref 10: "This adaptive hypothesis is
alluring [13] but some human observers have inferred or imputed a primate aversion to
fermented resources [10]. At the same time, chimpanzees are known to ingest the
fermented exudates of some plants [8,14]."
In addition, and in response to comment #1 of Reviewer 2, we added this text in the
discussion: "A problem with any of these ideas is that systematic data are scarce, in part
because alcohol was once viewed as a deterrent to vertebrate frugivores [39] and
because wild primates show few outward signs of intoxication [10]. In consequence, the
chronic consumption of alcohol at low levels in ripe and overripe fruits, as originally
emphasized by Dudley [1], remains an underappreciated factor in the foraging ecology of
primates, and alcohol is seldom measured in primate foods."
5
Lastly, we assert that work has not been published or accepted for publication, and is not under
consideration for publication, in another journal or book; that its submission for publication in
Royal Society Open Science has been approved by all relevant authors and institutions; and that
all persons entitled to authorship have been so named. Additionally, we affirm that the relevant
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees approved the methods and protocols described
and that all data are accessioned in Dryad.
Sincerely, yours,
Samuel R. Gochman
6
Society Open
