Postnatal ontogeny and the evolution of macrostomy in
snakes
Agustín Scanferla
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160612.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160612
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 August 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 15 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 29 September 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 10 October 2016
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160612)
09-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Scanferla
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160612 entitled
"POSTNATAL ONTOGENY AND THE EVOLUTION OF MACROSTOMY IN SNAKES" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160612
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Sep-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
3
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
There looks to be much of interest in this manuscript, but there are still some omissions from the
data presented that make the paper a little confusing to read. For example, one of the previous
referees commented on the fact that it appears that a large number of taxa have been sampled,
judging from the list provided in the supplementary information, but the ontogenetic data from
these is not provided. This still seems to be the case in this revised manuscript. In connection with
this, there are a number of mismatches between the taxa for which photographic documentation
of the ontogenetic changes is provided and the taxa shown in the graphs given in Fig.3 (and
dimension values provided in section B of the supplementary information). The text and list of
taxa mentioned in the supplementary give the distinct impression that the author has a lot of data
on which the conclusions are being based. But the actual data presented seems to be only a
selection of this data. This then creates a mismatch between the text and the results provided,
which needs to be rectified. If the author can provide the measurements, ideally alongside
4
photographic evidence, for all of the taxa for which an ontogenetic range has been examined then
this should make a very strong manuscript.
There are also a number of typographical errors throughout the manuscript which need to be
corrected.
1) The author uses a comma to designate a decimal point. This should be changed to a full-stop in
both the main text and supplementary information.
2) The author tends to use “preys” throughout when “prey” is almost always sufficient and more
appropriate.
3) There are a number of instances of missing or inappropriate words, such as ‘the’, ‘on’ and ‘in’,
which could be corrected by the manuscript being edited by a native English speaker. Such
English editing should also correct the cases of odd word ordering or incorrect tense usage.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160612):
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160612.R1)
22-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Scanferla:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160612.R1 entitled "POSTNATAL ONTOGENY AND THE EVOLUTION
OF MACROSTOMY IN SNAKES" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 15-Oct-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
5
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
6
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_1
The author has still not dealt with the main criticism from one of the original referees that I
highlighted in my previous comments. The author is not presenting extensive amounts of data
that they say they are basing their conclusions on, with regards to postnatal ontogenetic
sequences. In the author’s response he mentions that he has analysed more than 30 postnatal
ontogenetic sequences to provide an acceptable sample for the conclusions. This corresponds to
the list of 34 species specifically named in the supplementary information as having been
measured for postnatal ontogeny. However, the table in section B of the supplementary
information lists the measurements for only eight species, which corresponds to the eight species
depicted in Fig.3. The author does present the measurements of juvenile and adult skulls for one
or two more species within the other figures, but this certainly does not constitute the data for
more than 30 species on which the author says that he is basing his conclusions. I can understand
why the author restricts Fig.3 to a selection of only eight species in order to not over-complicate
the figure. Nevertheless, the measurement data for all 34 species listed in the supplementary
information as having been analysed for postnatal ontogeny needs to be provided before the
manuscript can be considered for acceptance.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160612.R1):
Dear Editor,
I've reduced the postnatal series listed in the supplementary material as the Associate editor
suggested, so this list includes only the species that are represented in the plots plus the species
figured in the manuscript and the supplementary material. I´ve uploaded the new version of the
Electronic Supplementary Material on Dryad.
Kindest regards
Agustín Scanferla
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160612.R2)
10-Oct-2016
Dear Dr Scanferla,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "POSTNATAL ONTOGENY AND THE
EVOLUTION OF MACROSTOMY IN SNAKES" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
alice.power@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
ear Dr. Dunn,
have now reviewed the manuscript, based on the suggestions and criticisms of the Associate Editor.
lease, find below comments on each point raised by the Associate Editor:
omment 1
here looks to be much of interest in this manuscript, but there are still some omissions from the data
resented that make the paper a little confusing to read. For example, one of the previous referees
ommented on the fact that it appears that a large number of taxa have been sampled, judging from the
st provided in the supplementary information, but the ontogenetic data from these is not provided. This
till seems to be the case in this revised manuscript. In connection with this, there are a number of
mismatches between the taxa for which photographic documentation of the ontogenetic changes is
rovided and the taxa shown in the graphs given in Fig.3 (and dimension values provided in section B of
he supplementary information). The text and list of taxa mentioned in the supplementary give the
istinct impression that the author has a lot of data on which the conclusions are being based. But the
ctual data presented seems to be only a selection of this data. This then creates a mismatch between
he text and the results provided, which needs to be rectified. If the author can provide the
measurements, ideally alongside photographic evidence, for all of the taxa for which an ontogenetic
ange has been examined then this should make a very strong manuscript.
agree with the Associate Editor about some mismatches between ontogenetic sequences analysed and
he performed graphics of Figure 3. To solve this I discriminated in the electronic supplementary
material the specimens that conform postnatal ontogenetic sequences to the adult specimens examined.
´ve analysed more than 30 postnatal ontogenetic sequences, so I consider my conclusions are based in
n acceptable sample. Of these ontogenetic sequences, I chose some of them to represent major snake
lades (i.e. scolecophidians, basal alethinophidians, underground and superficial macrostomatans) in the
metric analysis. However, it is important to emphasize that my conclusions are based in both the
natomical and metric analysis. Regrettably, it is not possible to provide the photographic evidence of
he sequences analysed because simply I don´t have images of all specimens, which were observed
uring several years in many different institutional collections.
omment 2
here are also a number of typographical errors throughout the manuscript which need to be corrected.
The author uses a comma to designate a decimal point. This should be changed to a full-stop in both
he main text and supplementary information.
The author tends to use “preys” throughout when “prey” is almost always sufficient and more
ppropriate.
There are a number of instances of missing or inappropriate words, such as ‘the’, ‘on’ and ‘in’, which
ould be corrected by the manuscript being edited by a native English speaker. Such English editing
hould also correct the cases of odd word ordering or incorrect tense usage.
revised the manuscript in order to correct these typographical and grammatical mistakes. Changes are
ecorded as track changes in the main manuscript.
Society Open
