Universals and cultural diversity in the expression of
gratitude
Simeon Floyd, Giovanni Rossi, Julija Baranova, Joe Blythe, Mark Dingemanse, Kobin H.
Kendrick, Jörg Zinken and N. J. Enfield
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180391.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180391
Review timeline
Original submission: 29 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 9 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 16 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 17 April 2018
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171513.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Sandra Thompson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I hope these comments are helpful; my overall concern is that quite a few of your claims go
beyond the evidence you present for them.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
At the heart of this paper is an interesting, indeed arresting, generalization: in many societies
around the world, expressions of thanks for fulfilled requests are few and far between. This is a
far cry from the ethnocentric assumptions that a person from contemporary Western Europe or
the United States might make.
I have two basic observations to make about the paper:
(1) The authors suggest that thanks are redundant in contexts characterized by the ongoing daily
reciprocities of direct assistance in communal life, and that the maintenance of reciprocity is "not
likely to depend on the verbalization of gratitude". Indeed in such a context the 'positive
politeness' that thanks represent would, according to Brown and Levinson's politeness theory,
invoke social distance and discomfort -something that the literature cited here confirms.
However, notwithstanding the very low rates of thanking that the data reveal, the findings, as
presented, leave open a range of questions about the requests and their authors that have the
3
potential to vitiate the claims that are made. They revolve around the lack of information about
the data corpus:
1) The paper includes both vocal and non-vocal requests (e.g, by pointing, palm up gesturing
etc.). Are vocal requests more likely to receive vocalized thanks than non-vocal ones?
2) Requests are made by persons with higher status and lower status relative to the requestee.
Are requests from higher status individuals less likely to be associated with vocalized thanks?
3) Requests are made to kin and non-kin. Are non-kin more likely to be thanked?
4) Requests are made to persons who are close friends or not. Are less close, or non-friends more
likely to be thanked?
5) Requests may be part of a shared on-going activity or involve the requestee in disjunctive
actions. Are the latter more likely to be thanked?
6) Requests may have different weights: ranging from what Erving Goffman called 'free goods'
(e.g., object transfer) to those involving quite costly impositions (borrowing a car, or a large sum
of money). Does the likelihood of thanks vary with the impositive cost of the request?
7) Requests may be for immediate action, the beginning of immediate action, or for temporally
deferred actions (such as performing a task 'tomorrow' or 'next week'). Were the last type of
requests included? Is there a relationship between thanks and the timing of the action being
requested? Is it appropriate to code for thanks at the point when a person begins an extended
task (e.g., washing up), but not for the point at which the task is ended?
8) Are requests more likely to attract thanks when made in urban rather than rural communities.
(And are the Polish and Russian data drawn from urban or rural communities?)
We know enough about the production of requests to know that their design (the details of their
production) vary (at least in the Western world) with numbers of these variables, and it would be
helpful to know if similar, even if lower amplitude, variation exists in the more rural and agrarian
societies represented in the paper. At the very least descriptive statistics should be supplied for
the variables below, so that the reader is made aware of the nature of the requests under
investigation here.
In sum, the authors' conclusions may well be valid but, because they may be qualified by some of
these considerations, some examination of potential variation along these (and perhaps other)
dimensions is desirable.
(2) I was not convinced that the opening discussion of the psychological benefits of gratitude
comports well with the main empirical burden of the paper. We do not have measures of these
psychological benefits in many of these populations and, given the tangential nature of this
discussion, the invocation of these benefits is an unjustifiable hostage to fortune and could
reasonably be dropped.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171513.R0)
05-Dec-2017
Dear Dr Rossi:
Manuscript ID RSOS-171513 entitled "Universality and cultural diversity in social reciprocity"
which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from
reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
4
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 04-Jun-2018. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I hope these comments are helpful; my overall concern is that quite a few of your claims go
beyond the evidence you present for them.
p. 2, line 3: But my impression of this research, based on English, is precisely that expressing
gratitude is part of the key to its positive effect on social relationships - so I'm not sure that you
want to dismiss this work too readily or that you want to say they're conflating emotions with
expression.
p. 2, line 20: Too strong? Maybe you couldn't find (m)any, but that doesn't warrant this claim,
right? See previous comment.
5
p. 3, line 19: For your diverse audience, is it worth mentioning (if I'm right) that this is a
positive response token rather than an assessment of the cookie? Relevance: as an assessment, it'd
have to be tasted, which precludes its being 'immediate’.
[Starting here, the line numbers and the actual lines don’t match, so I’m giving a couple of line
numbers to help locate the place on the page.]
p. 3, line 47-48: 'Corpus linguistics' as I know it rarely, if ever, uses the data collection method we
talk-in-interaction researchers rely on that you describe here, right?
p. 3, last line: the same field methods …. - 'the same' as what? do you mean 'equivalent across the
field contexts for this project'? Rephrase to clarify.
p. 3, last sentence: It looks like you're required to discuss your methodology in some depth, but
your paper starts to sag at this point for this reviewer. Can you clarify the motivation for making
this comment here?
p. 4, first 2 sentences:These 2 sentences aren't very convincing and somewhat reduce the
credibility of your overall argument: yes, they're rare, but what do you gain by touting your nice
cameras, etc.? And it's a real stretch to say you're 'breaking new methodological ground' - most
scholars working on interaction have been doing this since the sixties (cf. Harvey and Manny's
phone conversation and Goodwin's amazing audiovisual recordings in the late 70s).
p. 4, about line 4: If this's deemed valuable, could it be an appendix? As it is, it's an intrusion into
the flow of your argument, which I suggest you fix - with 'guideposts' or something.
p. 4, about line 18: Say where the questions came from? Presumably from the team sitting down
and working them up together?
p. 4, about line 22-23: Both? But you said there were 30 questions. Please clarify.
p. 5, about lines 13-14: Please reword to clarify first.
p. 5, line 54-55: Again, most is too strong, right? - can't you hedge to say your results are
suggestive, but refrain from saying what most languages do?
p. 5, line 56-57: But do References 37 and 38 have a large amount of cross-register data to support
this strong claim? If so, please do present it - otherwise this claim rings hollow, and takes away
from the legitimate point you're trying to make.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
At the heart of this paper is an interesting, indeed arresting, generalization: in many societies
around the world, expressions of thanks for fulfilled requests are few and far between. This is a
far cry from the ethnocentric assumptions that a person from contemporary Western Europe or
the United States might make.
I have two basic observations to make about the paper:
(1) The authors suggest that thanks are redundant in contexts characterized by the ongoing daily
reciprocities of direct assistance in communal life, and that the maintenance of reciprocity is "not
likely to depend on the verbalization of gratitude". Indeed in such a context the 'positive
politeness' that thanks represent would, according to Brown and Levinson's politeness theory,
invoke social distance and discomfort -something that the literature cited here confirms.
However, notwithstanding the very low rates of thanking that the data reveal, the findings, as
presented, leave open a range of questions about the requests and their authors that have the
potential to vitiate the claims that are made. They revolve around the lack of information about
the data corpus:
1) The paper includes both vocal and non-vocal requests (e.g, by pointing, palm up gesturing
etc.). Are vocal requests more likely to receive vocalized thanks than non-vocal ones?
6
2) Requests are made by persons with higher status and lower status relative to the requestee.
Are requests from higher status individuals less likely to be associated with vocalized thanks?
3) Requests are made to kin and non-kin. Are non-kin more likely to be thanked?
4) Requests are made to persons who are close friends or not. Are less close, or non-friends more
likely to be thanked?
5) Requests may be part of a shared on-going activity or involve the requestee in disjunctive
actions. Are the latter more likely to be thanked?
6) Requests may have different weights: ranging from what Erving Goffman called 'free goods'
(e.g., object transfer) to those involving quite costly impositions (borrowing a car, or a large sum
of money). Does the likelihood of thanks vary with the impositive cost of the request?
7) Requests may be for immediate action, the beginning of immediate action, or for temporally
deferred actions (such as performing a task 'tomorrow' or 'next week'). Were the last type of
requests included? Is there a relationship between thanks and the timing of the action being
requested? Is it appropriate to code for thanks at the point when a person begins an extended
task (e.g., washing up), but not for the point at which the task is ended?
8) Are requests more likely to attract thanks when made in urban rather than rural communities.
(And are the Polish and Russian data drawn from urban or rural communities?)
We know enough about the production of requests to know that their design (the details of their
production) vary (at least in the Western world) with numbers of these variables, and it would be
helpful to know if similar, even if lower amplitude, variation exists in the more rural and agrarian
societies represented in the paper. At the very least descriptive statistics should be supplied for
the variables below, so that the reader is made aware of the nature of the requests under
investigation here.
In sum, the authors' conclusions may well be valid but, because they may be qualified by some of
these considerations, some examination of potential variation along these (and perhaps other)
dimensions is desirable.
(2) I was not convinced that the opening discussion of the psychological benefits of gratitude
comports well with the main empirical burden of the paper. We do not have measures of these
psychological benefits in many of these populations and, given the tangential nature of this
discussion, the invocation of these benefits is an unjustifiable hostage to fortune and could
reasonably be dropped.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171513.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-180391.R0
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
7
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
You have addressed my concerns with this paper; it makes your point more strongly and clearly
now.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This paper adequately documents two important findings: (i) expressions of thanks are generally
infrequent across a range of languages, cultures and societies when requests are made in face-to-
face communication and are immediately satisfied; (ii) the emotion of gratitude should not be
conflated with its expression. These findings will be surprising and challenging for a Eurocentric
audience, and perhaps especially its anglophone members.
8
I believe that the authors have successfully parried my earlier concerns, sufficiently for me to
waive them. The paper has the potential to stimulate a lot of reactive research.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180391.R0)
04-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Rossi
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180391 entitled
"Universality and cultural diversity in social reciprocity" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science
The referee(s) do not recommend any further changes. Therefore, please proof-read your
manuscript carefully and upload your final files for publication.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
Please also ensure that your revised manuscript contains the following sections where applicable.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
9
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
10
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Antonia Hamilton (Associate Editor) and Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
This paper adequately documents two important findings: (i) expressions of thanks are generally
infrequent across a range of languages, cultures and societies when requests are made in face-to-
face communication and are immediately satisfied; (ii) the emotion of gratitude should not be
conflated with its expression. These findings will be surprising and challenging for a Eurocentric
audience, and perhaps especially its anglophone members.
I believe that the authors have successfully parried my earlier concerns, sufficiently for me to
waive them. The paper has the potential to stimulate a lot of reactive research.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
You have addressed my concerns with this paper; it makes your point more strongly and clearly
now.
11
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180391.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180391.R1)
17-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Rossi,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Universals and cultural diversity in the
expression of gratitude" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
r Professor Hamilton,
are grateful for your supportive response and for the constructive criticisms raised by the reviewers.
have now substantially revised the manuscript on the basis of their comments. In what follows, we
pond in detail to the comments (flagged in a text box) and explain how we have addressed them,
orting key sections of the edited text where relevant (in indented Times New Roman font).
iewer 1
, line 3: But my impression of this research, based on English, is precisely that expressing gratitude is
t of the key to its positive effect on social relationships - so I'm not sure that you want to dismiss this
k too readily or that you want to say they're conflating emotions with expression.
have rewritten this section (2. Introduction) to reflect the fact that some of the studies referred to here
mply the claim that expressing gratitude is part of the key to its positive effects, while leaving space also
our point that most of the public discussion about this seems to derive from a widespread conflation
ween emotions and expression. Also, the text now better sets the stage for how our study extends the
inant focus beyond English-speaking society and beyond experimental findings by conducting a
ematic comparative analysis of actual social interaction.
These findings are typically taken to imply that gratitude’s positive effects depend on people
verbally expressing it [12–14], for example by saying "thank you". This has led popular science
news outlets to make statements like: "According to positive psychologists, the words ‘thank
you’ are no longer just good manners, they are also beneficial to the self" [15], and similar
conclusions have gained currency in self-help books [16]. These conclusions and the research
that motivates them, however, are primarily based on English-speaking society, and often on the
experience and behaviour of individuals as measured in the constrained contexts of laboratories.
In this article, we argue that, in order to better understand the role of gratitude in the
maintenance of social reciprocity, we need to extend the investigation beyond English-speaking
society, on the one hand, and on the other to differentiate gratitude as an emotion from gratitude
as a linguistic practice, which is better observed in the ecological validity of everyday social
interaction rather than under artificial conditions in a lab.
, line 20: Too strong? Maybe you couldn't find (m)any, but that doesn't warrant this claim, right? See
vious comment.
claim being made here is not that books socializing children to say please and thank you do not exist
language other than English, but that there are many more such books in English than for any other
uage in the study and many others we were able to check. The text has been edited to clarify this point.
and by the hundreds of English books and websites dedicated to teaching children to say "thank
you" (e.g. The Berenstain Bears Say Please and Thank You [18]), which do not exist in such
great numbers, if at all, for most other languages.
, line 19: For your diverse audience, is it worth mentioning (if I'm right) that this is a positive response
en rather than an assessment of the cookie? Relevance: as an assessment, it'd have to be tasted, which
cludes its being 'immediate’.
have added a footnote for readers who may need clarification of this point.
“Sweet” here is not a comment on the biscuit’s taste, as it precedes the actual tasting.
, line 47-48: 'Corpus linguistics' as I know it rarely, if ever, uses the data collection method we talk-in-
raction researchers rely on that you describe here, right?
have clarified here that what is meant is studies using corpora of natural social interaction, not the field
corpus linguistics’ specifically.
The first stage of the project consisted of data collection using methods of field linguistics and
social interaction research to obtain audiovisual recordings of naturally occurring interaction in
situ in the respective language communities, encompassing a diverse range of speakers and
settings.
, last line: the same field methods …. - 'the same' as what? do you mean 'equivalent across the field
texts for this project'? Rephrase to clarify.
line has been cut in order to address other comments.
, last sentence: It looks like you're required to discuss your methodology in some depth, but your paper
ts to sag at this point for this reviewer. Can you clarify the motivation for making this comment here?
section has been reduced in length to include the main methodological points quickly and move on.
, first 2 sentences:These 2 sentences aren't very convincing and somewhat reduce the credibility of your
rall argument: yes, they're rare, but what do you gain by touting your nice cameras, etc.? And it's a real
tch to say you're 'breaking new methodological ground' - most scholars working on interaction have
n doing this since the sixties (cf. Harvey and Manny's phone conversation and Goodwin's amazing
iovisual recordings in the late 70s).
text has been edited and the two sentences in question have been cut. The innovativeness of our
hodology in terms of ecological validity and cross-cultural comparison already emerges from other
ions of the text.
, about line 4: If this's deemed valuable, could it be an appendix? As it is, it's an intrusion into the flow
our argument, which I suggest you fix - with 'guideposts' or something.
paragraph about sampling procedures is important to the article and the diverse audience it intends to
ch. Here and elsewhere we have streamlined the text in order to address the issues of argument flow
ntified by the reviewer. Note, finally, that the “Materials and methods” section comes in two parts:
erview” and “detailed” to allow readers who are already familiar with our procedures — such as
iewer 1 — to navigate the text and skip the parts they may be less interested in.
, about line 18: Say where the questions came from? Presumably from the team sitting down and
king them up together?
reviewer is correct about the procedure for creating survey questions. We have briefly stated this part
he method in the text.
The design of this coding scheme was informed by extensive qualitative analysis and group
discussion of request sequences in different languages. We determined that the coding scheme
was systematically applied by all eight coders through a reliability check using a sub-sample of
English cases, which was independently second-coded by the other seven researchers.
, about line 22-23: Both? But you said there were 30 questions. Please clarify.
full survey includes over 30 questions but in this paper we primarily consider the results of two of
m. Since the total number of questions is irrelevant, we have removed the reference to this number and
her clarified that our focus is on two specific questions.
Each request sequence in the dataset was coded by the respective language expert according to a
scheme of questions addressing both linguistic and interactional aspects of the sequence,
making possible quantitative analysis and comparison […] The two specific questions focused
on in this study were reliably answered for the categories considered (see below), achieving a
Krippendorf’s a [34] of >0.75 and >0.68 respectively
, about lines 13-14: Please reword to clarify first.
text was not clear and we have followed the reviewer’s suggestion to re-word and clarify.
To statistically probe this difference, we used mixed model logistic regression with Siwu —
showing the lowest rate among languages with at least one case of expression of gratitude — as
a baseline, and with the rest of the languages ordered by relative frequency of gratitude
expression (as shown in Figure 2).
, line 54-55: Again, most is too strong, right? - can't you hedge to say your results are suggestive, but
ain from saying what most languages do?
e we have accepted the reviewer’s appropriate suggestion for re-wording this sentence.
Although the artificial language Dothraki on the popular television show Game of Thrones is
made out to be exotic for having "no word for thank you," it appears that this is in fact not so
uncommon in languages around the world, and when one exists, it tends to be used with
restraint.
, line 56-57: But do References 37 and 38 have a large amount of cross-register data to support this
ng claim? If so, please do present it - otherwise this claim rings hollow, and takes away from the
timate point you're trying to make.
part has been rephrased so as to convey that comparison of our findings to those of these other
dies is suggestive of a pattern.
In English-speaking and other Western societies, expressions of gratitude may occur primarily
in institutional contexts and when interacting with strangers: a comparison of our findings on
informal social interaction with others based on service encounters suggests that rates may be
higher in the latter [37,38].
iewer 2
authors suggest that thanks are redundant in contexts characterized by the ongoing daily reciprocities
irect assistance in communal life, and that the maintenance of reciprocity is "not likely to depend on
verbalization of gratitude". Indeed in such a context the 'positive politeness' that thanks represent
uld, according to Brown and Levinson's politeness theory, invoke social distance and discomfort -
ething that the literature cited here confirms.
wever, notwithstanding the very low rates of thanking that the data reveal, the findings, as presented,
e open a range of questions about the requests and their authors that have the potential to vitiate the
ms that are made.
questions raised by Reviewer 2 concern a range of variables in requesting events that they
gine might potentially affect the rate of gratitude expression:
- verbal/nonverbal request
- higher/lower status of requester relative to requestee
- request made to kin/non-kin
- familiarity between requester and requestee
- cost of the action requested
- immediate/deferred fulfilment
- urban/rural community
wever, no rationale is provided for why these variables — and not others, of which we could
many — should be considered as relevant for thanking behaviour. To be sure, some of
ables above have been shown to affect the formulation of the request itself, as the
ewer notes. But request formulation is not the focus of the present study. While we
reciate the reviewer’s curiosity in these dimensions, our approach in this project has been
round any quantitative analysis in previous qualitative evidence of the relevance of the
ables in question, based on a detailed examination of the video data, as per the
hodology of conversation analysis and interactional linguistics.
extensive qualitative analysis of the video data, which we carried out before formulating
quantitative questions, did not show any apparent influence of the above variables.
t said, we have addressed the reviewer’s concerns by looking into some of the potential
elations they mention, wherever our coding data allowed (e.g. vocal/non-vocal requests,
uests made by higher- or lower-status individuals). As our more specific responses below
onstrate, however, the results of this survey largely confirm the conclusions of our
litative analysis that such variables do not play a substantive role in the general pattern of
nking behaviour. We have added a comment about this in footnote 4:
Our analysis of request sequences included a number of linguistic and social-interactional
variables that might potentially have an effect on gratitude expression, such as whether the
request was verbal or nonverbal, or whether the requester had higher or lower status relative to
the requestee. Such variables, however, did not have statistically significant effects on the
general pattern we report.
The paper includes both vocal and non-vocal requests (e.g, by pointing, palm up gesturing etc.). Are
al requests more likely to receive vocalized thanks than non-vocal ones?
ur data, verbal (or composite) requests are followed by thanks in 6.2% of the cases (n=45/676);
verbal requests in 1.6% (n=2/123) of the cases. This may be suggestive of a pattern, but when we
del it with mixed effects logistic regression, we get a p value of .078. Considering that nonverbal
uests are massively less frequent than verbal/composite ones (141 vs 1277 total cases), we conclude
t any potential effect cannot be substantiated on the basis of the available dataset; further investigation
his is left to future research.
Requests are made by persons with higher status and lower status relative to the requestee. Are
uests from higher status individuals less likely to be associated with vocalized thanks?
uests by higher status individuals are followed by thanks in 2% of the cases; requests by lower status
viduals in 1.4% of the cases.
Requests are made to kin and non-kin. Are non-kin more likely to be thanked?
Requests are made to persons who are close friends or not. Are less close, or non-friends more likely
e thanked?
did not code for kin relations or familiarity, so we cannot address these questions quantitatively. As
h other variables, however, our qualitative analysis of the video data did not reveal any apparent effect.
Requests may be part of a shared on-going activity or involve the requestee in disjunctive actions. Are
latter more likely to be thanked?
did not code for this dimension exactly, but we did code for whether the requestee was in charge of, or
ecially responsible for, the service in question, which partially overlaps with the request being part of a
red on-going activity. However, this coding question unfortunately did not meet standards of reliability
t was excluded from quantitative analysis. That said, even setting aside standards of coding reliability,
re is no indication of a pattern: requests for which the requestee is responsible are followed by thanks
.5% of the cases; requests for which the requestee is not responsible in 2.4% of the cases.
Requests may have different weights: ranging from what Erving Goffman called 'free goods' (e.g.,
ect transfer) to those involving quite costly impositions (borrowing a car, or a large sum of money). Does
likelihood of thanks vary with the impositive cost of the request?
Requests may be for immediate action, the beginning of immediate action, or for temporally deferred
ons (such as performing a task 'tomorrow' or 'next week'). Were the last type of requests included? Is
re a relationship between thanks and the timing of the action being requested? Is it appropriate to
e for thanks at the point when a person begins an extended task (e.g., washing up), but not for the
nt at which the task is ended?
ddress (7) first: our project was designed to include only request sequences in which fulfilment begins
ediately after the request; requests for deferred actions were therefore not included (now clarified in
tnote 2). This focus ensures that we have access to the development of the whole request sequence
m initiation to completion in the vast majority of cases. In the few cases where fulfilment takes longer
. washing up), we did monitor for the possibility of thanks at completion and instructed coders to note
occurrence, but there were none. Our focus on here-and-now requests also helps us address (6): as a
sequence of this focus, the actions requested are mainly low-cost; the few higher-cost requests we can
e are just too few to show any pattern in relation to thanking. We have added a comment about this as
t of footnote 4:
It is also worth noting that our focus on here-and-now requests implies that most of the actions
requested are relatively straightforward and low-cost. The few cases of higher-cost requests we
can note in our data are just too few to show an effect on gratitude expression; the investigation
of such a potential effect is left to future research.
Are requests more likely to attract thanks when made in urban rather than rural communities. (And
the Polish and Russian data drawn from urban or rural communities?)
Polish and Russian data are drawn from urban communities (like the English and Italian data). Other
ures in our sample are mostly rural. The absence of a difference in rates of gratitude expression
ween Polish/Russian (urban) and Cha’palaa/Siwu/Lao (rural) suggests no difference between urban and
l communities more generally.
know enough about the production of requests to know that their design (the details of their
duction) vary (at least in the Western world) with numbers of these variables, and it would be helpful to
w if similar, even if lower amplitude, variation exists in the more rural and agrarian societies
resented in the paper. At the very least descriptive statistics should be supplied for the variables below,
hat the reader is made aware of the nature of the requests under investigation here.
um, the authors' conclusions may well be valid but, because they may be qualified by some of these
siderations, some examination of potential variation along these (and perhaps other) dimensions is
irable.
mentioned above, we agree with the reviewer that these variables can and do affect the design of
uests. However, we don’t have evidence to suggest that these variables affect thanking.
onclude our discussion of the questions raised by the reviewer, we would like to touch on a variable
t they did not mention, but that is a stronger candidate as an influence on thanking behaviour, namely
lexico-grammatical format of the request, when verbal. A subset of the authors of the present study are
loring this topic further, focussing on the contrast between imperatives and second person polar
rrogatives. This investigation requires a more in-depth analysis of request sequences and takes the
ussion beyond the scope of the present paper. However, we would be happy to share a draft of the
-off paper with the reviewer if they’re interested.
was not convinced that the opening discussion of the psychological benefits of gratitude comports well
h the main empirical burden of the paper. We do not have measures of these psychological benefits in
ny of these populations and, given the tangential nature of this discussion, the invocation of these
efits is an unjustifiable hostage to fortune and could reasonably be dropped.
believe that the literature on the emotion of gratitude is directly relevant to our topic and should be
ussed; the discussion helps to situate our research, which links with and extends this previous literature
mportant ways. However, we have revised the introduction to avoid the implication that the authors of
literature are our main interlocutors. Indeed, our findings are of relevance to a broad audience and to a
ge of research interests in human sociality. Some of the changes made in response to the first comment
eviewer 1 also contribute to satisfying Reviewer 2’s concerns here.
h these changes we have endeavored to address the reviewers’ suggestions whenever possible, and
that the manuscript has been significantly improved as a result. We hope that you will consider it for
lication in this new form.
t regards,
eon Floyd and Giovanni Rossi (on behalf of our co-authors)
Appendix B
April 16, 2018
Dear Professor Hamilton,
We were excited to receive notification that our manuscript has been accepted for publication in
label_version_3
RSOS. Please accept the final revision of our manuscript "Universals and cultural diversity in the
expression of gratitude".
With respect to the editorial comments we received on April 4, 2018, no further changes were
required before publication.
With this in mind, in this final round of revisions the manuscript has received only minor editing
largely consisting of with slight re-wording of a few passages, as well as the addition of a map. Please
also note that the title has also been slightly altered from the previous draft (“Universality and
cultural diversity in social reciprocity”) with the intention of more clearly expressing the main topic
for readers. With these minor revisions, the manuscript can be considered ready for publication on
our part.
For the purposes of production, there are two details that the online submission system does not
allow us to specify but that are correctly indicated in the manuscript file: 1) our co-author Kendrick
should be listed as “Kobin H. Kendrick”, with the middle initial H., 2) there are three authors for
correspondence who should be listed in the following order: N. J. Enfield (email:
nick.enfield@sydney.edu.au), Simeon Floyd (email: sfloyd1@usfq.edu.ec), Giovanni Rossi (email:
giovanni.rossi@helsinki.fi).
If you have any further concerns or comments, please don’t hesitate to get in touch. Thanks again
for accepting our work for publication in RSOS.
Sincerely,
Simeon Floyd & Giovanni Rossi, on behalf of our co-authors
Society Open
