Field energetics and lung function in wild bottlenose
dolphins, Tursiops truncatus, in Sarasota Bay Florida
A. Fahlman, M. Brodsky, R. Wells, K. McHugh, J. Allen, A. Barleycorn, J. C. Sweeney, D.
Fauquier and M. Moore
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171280.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171280
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 5 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171280.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see comments in the attached PDF. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a well written manuscript that reports on the respiratory physiology and resting metabolic
rate of lightly restrained, wild bottlenose dolphins. The study is most valuable for its large
sample size which is not possible with captive dolphins. The results validate previous
measurements. In this regard, there were no major discoveries. However, the sample size is
unprecedented and therefore is an important contribution to the literature. I have two criticisms.
First, the study is primarily physiological and stands on its own merits. I see no need to link it to
climate change, which I find gratuitous. Hence the first paragraph is unneeded. Linking the
measurements to estimates of field metabolic rate are also weak since the authors assume a
multiplier for resting metabolic rate. Again, this is a weak addition to the manuscript which
should focus on physiology. Secondly, the allometric analysis produced regressions with R-
squared coefficients that were too low for useful conclusions- the data are too variable. Under
these circumstances, the best that can be done is a simple mean over the range of body masses.
Discussing non-significant trends is not helpful. Nevertheless, the overall data set is valuable and
the authors are to be commended for their efforts.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171280)
13-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Fahlman,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Field energetics and lung function in wild bottlenose
dolphins, Tursiops truncatus, in Sarasota Bay Florida") have now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-Dec-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171280
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
The data presented in this manuscript are quite unique as it is unusual to have the opportunity to
collect these types of data from wild cetaceans.
Both reviewers had similar concerns about over interpretation of the data and made suggestions
for resolving this. Reviewer number one provides a very comprehensive list of edits and ideas for
improving the manuscript. If the authors are able to address reviewer concerns, I think this
manuscript will make a valuable contribution to the literature.
5
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see comments in the attached PDF.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a well written manuscript that reports on the respiratory physiology and resting metabolic
rate of lightly restrained, wild bottlenose dolphins. The study is most valuable for its large
sample size which is not possible with captive dolphins. The results validate previous
measurements. In this regard, there were no major discoveries. However, the sample size is
unprecedented and therefore is an important contribution to the literature. I have two criticisms.
First, the study is primarily physiological and stands on its own merits. I see no need to link it to
climate change, which I find gratuitous. Hence the first paragraph is unneeded. Linking the
measurements to estimates of field metabolic rate are also weak since the authors assume a
multiplier for resting metabolic rate. Again, this is a weak addition to the manuscript which
should focus on physiology. Secondly, the allometric analysis produced regressions with R-
squared coefficients that were too low for useful conclusions- the data are too variable. Under
these circumstances, the best that can be done is a simple mean over the range of body masses.
Discussing non-significant trends is not helpful. Nevertheless, the overall data set is valuable and
the authors are to be commended for their efforts.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171280)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171280.R1)
05-Dec-2017
Dear Dr Fahlman,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Field energetics and lung function in
wild bottlenose dolphins, Tursiops truncatus, in Sarasota Bay Florida" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
6
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Denise Greig (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
neral: This is an interesting study that is generally well written. The authors have a wealth of data
t could be very useful, particularly if further mined. Some minor editorial comments and more
stantive comments on methods and interpretation of RMR values and allometric exponents are
uded in my review. If the authors can address the concerns regarding RMR calculations, presentation
allometric exponents, as well as clarify the methods and results, this manuscript should provide
uable information to the scientific community. As the authors stated, measuring energetics in free-
ging marine mammals, particularly cetaceans, is incredibly difficult, and data on metabolic rates of
e-ranging animals are needed to better understand the impacts of anthropogenic disturbance and
turbations. The authors measured respiratory flow-rates and expired oxygen to determine metabolic
e (O2 consumption rate) and tidal volume of temporarily restrained wild dolphins. The sample size is
mmendably large for a delphinid study, and the methods (developed and published by the authors in
lier papers) are relatively novel and sound. Additional details are required in the methods, table, and
res because some of the parameters/parameter values are difficult to assess due to the limited
ormation presented. Consequently, it is difficult to ascertain whether some of the results are
aningful or if there are other factors that should be considered in the interpretation of the results.
thermore, the authors need to be clear earlier on in the discussion that they derived their allometric
onents from equations that include immature animals, which is not typically done. I suggest that the
hors present two sets of exponents for each variable – 1) from equations that include all animals,
uding immature individuals, in the study and 2) from equations that only include adult animals in the
dy. Given the low sample size and relatively narrow range for adult body mass values, if a separate
metric equation for adults (plus potentially older juveniles) is not possible, then the authors should
mpare adult values to values predicted by mammalian allometric equations to determine if they are
ilar or if they are indeed different from other adult mammals. Finally, the authors should consult
itional literature to ensure they have captured the range of RMR values measured previously in
ontocetes, and dolphins in particular. These items need to be addressed before the manuscript is
table for publication. Specific comments are detailed below.
stract:
e 48: delete “an” prior to active animals
e 48: The 2-3 multiplier is not well justified for marine mammals. See the suggested references in the
cussion section comments.
roduction:
es 66-67: remove the comma between “circulation” and “and water ”. Replace the semi colon
ween “temperature” and “which” with a comma.
es 68-72: This is a long and cumbersome sentence. I suggest shortening and re-wording.
es 79-80: “While considerable work has been done on the diving physiology of seals and sea lions,
hnical and logistical limitations have prevented comparable measurements in wild cetaceans.”
s sentence should be modified to more accurately reflect the focus of the present study. While the
ve statement is true, the manuscript does not discuss diving physiology. The manuscript solely
uses on respiratory physiology and metabolic rates of resting dolphins at the surface. I suggest
hrasing the sentence. There have also been more bioenergetics studies, including measuring FMRs,
ree-ranging pinnipeds, and that statement is more in line with the focus of this manuscript.
es 101-102: “Because respiratory and diving physiology are difficult to study in free ranging dolphins,
mal lung function for healthy animals is poorly understood [13,14].”
wever, the authors and others have studied respiratory physiology on healthy animals in captivity, so
w is “normal lung function for healthy animals poorly understood”? Also, do we need to study diving
siology to understand normal lung function in healthy animals? Given that diving is not a component
he present study, it seems like discussions of diving physiology are not relevant here.
es 103-105: “We therefore compared data collected from wild animals with data from dolphins
naged under human care to assess if such measurements may provide information that is relevant to
h populations.”
s manuscript does not directly compare the bulk of the results from the present study to data from
phins in managed care (with the exception of some broad comparisons of ranges for some of the
iables in the discussion). I assumed the focus of this manuscript would be a comparison of the data
ected from wild dolphins in the present study with the data collected by the same method from
tive dolphins, which would validate these methods as useful for free-ranging animals. Captive
mals that are trained in advance of measurements can be de-sensitized to the equipment and
dling by humans, and are expected to have fewer factors (stress response, psychological response,
ponse to restraint) that influence RMR measurements and potentially other variables the authors
asured. See Rosen and Trites (2013), Rechsteiner et al. (2013), and Worthy et al. (2014) for
cussions regarding the effects of training, psychological state, and other factors on measuring
urate BMRs and RMRs in odontocetes. Rigorous comparisons of relevant results from the present
dy (adult values, to match body mass of subjects from the previous work of the authors) and results
m the previously published work (Fahlman et al. 2016) would help justify the utility of these methods
free-ranging dolphins.
terials and Methods:
re detail is needed regarding the duration in which respirometry data were collected per animal.
ration of time is important for accurately estimating RMR (Compher et al. 2006), which the authors
o point out later in the discussion. Is a minimum of 3 min sufficient? Periods of 3-15 min of
tinuous O2 data were included in the analysis, which is a pretty large range, compared to the
sistent durations of data collection reported in the most recent studies on captive dolphins. If
ation of session was included in the statistical analysis, would it be significant? Were younger
mals measured for shorter durations? Age plus duration of sessions might influence the variables
asured. The most recent studies that have reported RMRs in odontocete cetaceans used a minimum
5 min of continuous data collection via flow-through methods to estimate RMR. For example, Worthy
l. (2014) calculated “BMR” from the most consistently stable portion (minimum of 15 min) of each
30 min measurement trial, Rosen and Trites (2013) and Rechsteiner et al. (2013) calculated RMR
m the last 10 min of ~20 min trials, Yeates and Houser (2008) calculated RMR from the most level 5
of 10-20 min trials, Noren et al. (2013 and 2017) calculated RMR from the most level 5 min during
last 8 min of the 10 min baseline component of social sound production and echolocation click
duction trials. Interestingly, with the exception of RMRs measured in Pacific white-sided dolphins,
ich are known for their high activity levels (Rechsteiner et al. 2013), recently measured RMR values in
ontocetes are similar to or only slightly elevated above Kleiber predicted BMRs. This differs from
ults of previous studies on dolphins (see Table 3 in Yazdi et al. 1999). This may be due to the
ievement of obtaining actual resting states by ensuring that animals are calm prior to initiating
asurement periods and recording data for longer durations. The authors should evaluate their data in
respect to assess how their estimated RMRs vary with body size as well as the duration of the
sion (specifically, the duration of the trial in which the data were collected to calculate RMR as well
he duration of time that animals were restrained prior to collecting data) for wild dolphins.
e 149: “As detailed in Fahlman, Loring [16]” should be changed to “As detailed in Fahlman et al. [16]”
AIC tables are presented. This makes it impossible to know which experimental covariates were
lyzed and how well the best fit models out-performed other models. At a minimum, AIC tables
uld be included as supplementary information if not presented in the results section.
ults:
mentioned previously, duration of trials should be given in conjunction with the other results.
es 178-179: “The average respiratory frequency (fR) during trials was 2.7 ± 1.3 breaths min-1 (range:
-5.6)”.
.6 supposed to be 6.5? According to Table 1, 6.5 is the largest fR. There is also a fR value of 5.8 in the
le, so I’m not sure how 5.6 is the largest value in the range?
there any relationships between the exhalation and the subsequent inhalation flow durations?
y are equations 3 and 4 included in the results? Given that “water” and “male” are not numeric
ues, these equations cannot be used for predictive purposes. I suggest simply presenting the AIC and
tistical results.
es 206-207: “Resting oxygen consumption rate, VO2, was estimated for periods during which the
phin remained calm and ranged from 3 min to 15 min in duration (Table 1).”
le 1 does not include resting VO2 rate nor duration of measurement periods, so, as this sentence
nds, Table 1 shouldn’t be cited here. However, both trial duration and VO2 rate should be included in
le 1 for transparency. Furthermore, given that 3 min is a relatively short time to measure RMR (see
lier comment), an analysis should be done to determine how/if duration of the trial influences RMR
ues. This analysis would also need to incorporate sex, body mass, year, and in/out of the water. If
rt trials produce VO2 results with higher variability, only longer duration trials (e.g., 5-10 min
imum duration) should be included in the additional analyses/discussion related to RMR.
es 207-208: “The estimated metabolic rates varied substantially within and among animals and the
ss specific VO2 (s VO2) ranged from 0.76 ml min-1 kg-1 to 9.45 ml O2 min-1 kg-1 (Fig. 1).”
possible that the MRs varied “substantially within animals” due to differences in duration of trials.
me daily variation in MR is certainly expected, but results shouldn’t be “substantially” divergent
hin an individual (given no year effect), unless this divergence is only related to being in or out of the
ter. How many times were animals sampled per day? Are there explanations for this finding?
cussion:
es 217-218: “Our data indicate that the RMR rate scales with Mb, with an allometric exponent that is
siderably lower than that of terrestrial mammals (0.43±0.18).”
there any publications that report within species comparisons of RMR for terrestrial mammals? It is
ly that the smaller range in body mass as well as the inclusion of immature animals (not typically
asured for studies on BMR because the inclusion of immature animals violates one of the key
umptions of BMR) drives the value of the exponent. Juvenile animals that are growing have elevated
tabolic rates so a smaller exponent across the range of body masses might be expected when making
omparison to an allometric equation that only includes adult animals. A similar study within a single
cies of mammals that also includes immature animals would be a more relevant comparison here.
o, given that the results here are specific to bottlenose dolphins and for clarity that the 0.43 value is
all dolphin data, I suggest rephrasing the sentence to: “Our data indicate that bottlenose dolphin
R rate across all ages scales with Mb, with an allometric exponent (0.43±0.18) that is considerably
er than that of adult terrestrial mammals [47, 48].” A statement should be added after this sentence
t the inclusion of young, immature animals is likely to be one of the reasons why the exponents
er.
at would the allometric exponent be if all immature animals were discarded from this specific
lysis? Are values for adult (and possibly larger juvenile) dolphins similar to what would be expected
mammalian allometric relationships?
es 220-222 “These data will need to be compared with those measured in animals under human care,
he context of differences in experimental design, sample size, or actual differences with wild
phins.”
en the inclusion of three age classes in these analyses, I caution the authors against attributing any
erence they may find to wild vs. captive animals. As stated above, most of the allometric equations in
siology are derived from adult animals only. Body morphology and physiology changes with age and
elopment. Unless there is access to captive animals that span the same age range, a comparison will
ly yield very different results. The authors need to acknowledge upfront that some of their results
ld be attributed to the inclusion of immature animals. If the data are sufficient, I recommend that
authors present two allometric exponents per each variable (RMR, respiratory flow, VT, etc.) - One
t includes all animals and one that excludes the immature animals (especially calves). At a minimum
authors should assess whether their values for adults are similar to what would be expected by
mmalian allometric relationships.
es 225-227: “which is similar to previous data for the bottlenose dolphin [27.5-226 58.8 ml Kg-1, 16,
20], the harbor porpoise [39.3 to 52.6 ml kg-1 in 21], and gray whale [12.0 to 35.3 ml kg-1, 22].”
three “kg-1” in the sentence should be corrected to “kg-1”
es 238-239: “The expiratory flow rate was 50% higher as compared with the inspiratory flow rate for
0 kg dolphin, and decreased to 28% for a 300 kg animal.”
s statement is a bit confusing. For clarity, I suggest editing the sentence to: The expiratory flow rate
s 50% higher than the inspiratory flow rate for a 70 kg dolphin. This relative difference between
iratory and inspiratory flow rates decreased to 28% for a 300 kg animal.
es 240-241: “Thus, smaller animals had a relatively higher flow as compared with the larger animals
the shorter expiratory duration assured that inspired and expired VT were equal.”
s sentence is a little confusing and should be edited for clarity. Also, how do shorter expiratory
ations assure that inspired and expired VT are equal?
es 267-269: “Most of these measurements are limited in scope and indicate that the mass-specific
R is considerably higher in aquatic species than in their terrestrial counterparts.”
not sure what “limited in scope” is supposed to mean here. Many of the older studies, during which
dolphins were measured for shorter durations, constrained in boxes, etc. reported considerably
her RMRs. But several more recent studies on odontocetes that have measured respiratory gases
m individuals for longer durations and had spent time conditioning the animals to the experimental
tocol prior to conducting the experiments report MRs that are at or near basal predictions (1-1.3X
iber-predicted BMR; Noren et al. 2013 and 2017, Rosen and Trites 2013, Worthy et al. 2014, Yeates
Houser 2008). These findings need to be acknowledged here.
es 273-276 The authors state that experimental design and conditions significantly alter results and
lain large differences in RMR. This is true – differences in the penguin RMRs are likely attributed to
effects of fasting, body condition, and thermal regime on metabolic rates. There are several
niped and a few delphinid papers that support this as well. Given the discussion is on marine
mmals, the authors might consider citing these references. See the review and references within
en et al. 2007. And, for thermal effects on metabolic rates in dolphins see Yeates and Houser 2008
references within.
es 277-279: “In past studies, the mass-specific RMR for bottlenose dolphins in water ranged from 4.6-
ml O2 min-1 kg-1 [Mb range 125-250 kg, 8, 16, 27, 32, 37, 46].”
s range is not representative of the entire range that has been reported. The authors need to update
range and the references. This is important for the comparisons of their findings to those that have
n reported. Several recent studies that measured the dolphins for longer periods of time report
er RMR than the range given by the authors. For example Yeates and Houser (2008) reported mass
cific RMR values of 3-4.4 ml O2 min-1 kg-1 for bottlenose dolphins ranging from 177-220 kg. Noren et
2013 and 2017 reported baseline RMR values for similarly sized dolphins that are also within the
ge reported by Yeates and Houser (see figures in Noren et al. 2013 and 2017 and supplemental data
m Noren et al. 2017). Throughout the manuscript the authors report that their values are much lower
n values measured by others, and that is not the case for more recent studies.
es 279-281: While the measured values from past studies were in the same range as the values
orted in the current study (Fig. 1), a considerable number of measurements in the weight
ge from 145-250 kg were lower [Fig. 1, 16, 27, 32, 37, 46].
his statement still correct with the new range of values when the other references from above are
uded? If so, I assume the statement is that the values in the present study are lower? It is a little
biguous as written. If the statement is still accurate, I suggest rephrasing it to:
ile the measured values from past studies were in the same range as the values reported here (Fig.
a considerable number of measurements in the weight range from 145-250 kg were lower in the
sent study [Fig. 1, 16, 27, 32, 37, 46].
his is no longer a correct statement, then a major revision of this sentence is warranted.
o, as mentioned earlier, is there a difference in the duration of respirometry data collection with age
ass or length) of individuals? If so, can this be accounted for? Without a sufficient duration of data
ection, respirometry values can be skewed.
o, see comment on Figure 1. A second panel that reports mass-specific values would be useful for
mparisons to earlier studies. Where sufficient data are available (body mass and VO2), data points
m previous studies could also be added to the figure for ease of comparison.
es 282-287: See earlier points regarding the inclusion of calves influencing the allometric equation.
mparing allometric equations derived from terrestrial mammals is not equivalent unless there are
restrial mammal species-specific allometric equations that also include immature individuals.
es 289-291: “The difference on land may reflect a higher cost of breathing when on land, as
piration requires the dolphin to overcome its own full weight.”
s is definitely likely to be one factor. But, I think another factor that is important to state is that these
phins are not trained to haul out. So, this experimental design involves two potential factors that
ld increase MR: 1) physical because it may be harder to breathe on land and 2) psychological
ause these animals are likely to be very stressed out of the water since this is an unnatural state for
m – more so than being restrained but still in the water. The only way to verify which factor is most
ortant would be to repeat this on animals that are trained to slide out onto mats. For example, the
Navy dolphins.
es 322-324: “In the current study we used the same equipment as in our previous study, and as the
iratory durations were longer in the current study, which should increase the accuracy.”
s sentence is awkwardly worded, please edit.
es 312-315: This is a good point that should be acknowledged earlier, as I commented above
e 325: change “affect” to “affected”
e 327: Given the most recent minimum values of RMR for captive studies (see comment above), I
n’t think it can be stated that values reported here are significantly lower than those of animals under
man care.
es 328-329: Excellent discussion regarding the effect of stress on MR. Some dolphins also stop
athing during captures. Because of that respiration rates are closely monitored during these capture
erations. How do respiration rates of these restrained individuals compare to free-swimming
phins? Understandably exercising dolphins may have elevated RR, but what about resting dolphins?
these captured dolphins appear to “shut-down” a bit?
es 333-334: “In previous studies, the resting period ranged from 40 s to 4.5 min [16, 27, 32].”
s is true for the older studies, and as correctly postulated, is likely to be why many of the earlier RMR
ues are elevated. However more recent studies on odontocetes, including 3 studies on bottlenose
phins, required individuals to rest for 10-20 min under the metabolic hood and then only analyzed
tinuous steady-state VO2 data for a minimum period of 5-10 min during that resting session.
nsequently these studies reported RMRs that were closer to Kleiber predicted measurements (Noren
al. 2013, 2017; Rosen and Trites 2013; Worthy et al. 2014; Yeates and Houser 2008). These findings
uld be incorporated into the range of resting values reported previously.
es 344-348: range for previously measured RMR needs to be updated (3.0 ml O2 min-1 kg-1 is the
imum) and additional references included (Noren et al. 2013, 2017; Yeates and Houser 2008)
es 352-354: The references (Ricklefs et al. 1996, Speakman et al. 2003) don’t really support the
roach to use a multiplier of 2-3X Kleiber-predicted BMR for marine mammal field metabolic rates.
re are several field metabolic rate studies on marine mammals that are more appropriate
erences. Much of the work done on marine mammals supports using 5-6X Kleiber-predicted BMR (a
imum of 3-6X Kleiber-predicted BMR) as an estimate for FMR. Refer to the references within
arano et al. 2017 and Noren 2011.
e 400-401 competing interests statement in acknowledgements is redundant to line 383
les and Figures:
le 1: Missing the title and legend. Given the lack of this information, I am not sure what “N”
ignates. Is it the number of breaths per animal? Also, total duration of each measurement session
uld be included for each trial. This is because, as stated previously (and by the authors), the duration
ime that respirometry data are collected is important for obtaining valid data to determine steady
te RMR in marine mammals that breathe apnuestically. How is there a “---“ in the N (air or water)
umn, yet there is a corresponding value for fR? What do the “---“designate? Are air and water
asurements done sequentially in the same session, on the same day, etc.? If multiple measurements
re taken on the same day, then some assessment on how this may influence results needed. Without
legend or footnotes, I’m unable to decipher some of the variables in this table.
ure 1: Missing title and caption. Also, given the useful discussion of mass-specific metabolic rate and
mparisons across several studies, it is important to also present mass-specific values of VO2 in a
ond panel of this figure. Furthermore, the y-axis needs to be corrected - change VO2 to VO2.
ure 2: Missing title and caption.
ure 3: Missing title and caption.
erences:
mpher C., Frankenfield D., Keim N., Roth-Yousey L. 2006. Best Practice Methods to Apply to
asurement of Resting Metabolic Rate in Adults: A Systematic Review. Journal of the American
tetic Association 106(6): 881-903, ISSN 0002-8223, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jada.2006.02.009.
tp://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0002822306001465)
ren D.P., Holt M.M., Dunkin R.C., Williams T.M. 2013. The metabolic cost of communicative sound
duction in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). The Journal of Experimental Biology 216:1624-
9.
ren D.P., Holt M.M., Dunkin R.C., Williams T.M. 2017. Echolocation is cheap for some mammals:
phins conserve oxygen while producing high-intensity clicks. Journal of Experimental Marine Biology
Ecology 495:103-109.
hsteiner E.U., Rosen D.A.S., Trites A.W. 2013. Seasonal resting metabolic rate and food intake of
tive Pacific white-sided dolphins (Lagenorhynchus obliquidens). Aquatic Mammals 39: 241-252.
en D.A.S. and Trites A.W. 2013. Resting metabolic rate of a mature male beluga whale,
phinapterus leucas. Aquatic Mammals 38: 85-88.
en D.A.S., Winship A.J., Hoopes L.A. 2007. Thermal and digestive constraints to foraging behaviour in
rine mammals. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B. 362:2151-2168.
en D.A.S. and Trites A.W. 2013. Resting metabolic rate of a mature beluga whale (Delphinapterus
cas). Aquatic Mammals 39:85-88.
rthy G.A.J., Worthy T.A.M., Yochem P.K., Dold C. 2014. Basal metabolism of an adult male killer
ale (Orcinus orca). Marine Mammal Science 30:1229-1237.
di P., Kilian A., Culik, B. 1999. Energy expenditure of swimming bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops
ncatus). Marine Biology 134: 601-607. https://doi.org/10.1007/s002270050575
tes L.C. and Houser D.S. 2008. Thermal tolerance in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). The
rnal of Experimental Biology 211:3249-3257.
pendix B
ponses to reviews. Reviewer comments are shown in italics, and our responses are shown in plain
after each comment. Line numbers refer to the revised text. We appreciate the care, thought and
structive comments from the reviewers.
nuscript ID Manuscript ID RSOS-171280
e: Field energetics and lung function in wild bottlenose dolphins, Tursiops truncatus, in Sarasota Bay
rida
hors: Fahlman, A., Brodsky, M., Wells, R., McHugh, K., Allen, J., Barleycorn, A., Sweeney, J.,
quier, D., Moore, M.
mments to Author:
iewers' Comments to Author:
iewer: 1
eral: This is an interesting study that is generally well written. The authors have a wealth of data that
ld be very useful, particularly if further mined. Some minor editorial comments and more substantive
ments on methods and interpretation of RMR values and allometric exponents are included in my
ew. If the authors can address the concerns regarding RMR calculations, presentation of allometric
onents, as well as clarify the methods and results, this manuscript should provide valuable
rmation to the scientific community. As the authors stated, measuring energetics in free ranging
ine mammals, particularly cetaceans, is incredibly difficult, and data on metabolic rates of free-
ging animals are needed to better understand the impacts of anthropogenic disturbance and
urbations. The authors measured respiratory flow-rates and expired oxygen to determine metabolic
(O2 consumption rate) and tidal volume of temporarily restrained wild dolphins. The sample size is
mendably large for a delphinid study, and the methods (developed and published by the authors in
ier papers) are relatively novel and sound. Additional details are required in the methods, table, and
res because some of the parameters/parameter values are difficult to assess due to the limited
rmation presented. Consequently, it is difficult to ascertain whether some of the results are
ningful or if there are other factors that should be considered in the interpretation of the results.
thermore, the authors need to be clear earlier on in the discussion that they derived their allometric
onents from equations that include immature animals, which is not typically done. I suggest that the
hors present two sets of exponents for each variable – 1) from equations that include all animals,
uding immature individuals, in the study and 2) from equations that only include adult animals in the
y. Given the low sample size and relatively narrow range for adult body mass values, if a separate
metric equation for adults (plus potentially older juveniles) is not possible, then the authors should
pare adult values to values predicted by mammalian allometric equations to determine if they are
ilar or if they are indeed different from other adult mammals. Finally, the authors should consult
itional literature to ensure they have captured the range of RMR values measured previously in
ntocetes, and dolphins in particular. These items need to be addressed before the manuscript is
able for publication. Specific comments are detailed below.
are grateful for the excellent comments and we have detailed how we have revised the paper below.
tract:
e 48: delete “an” prior to active animals
s has been revised
e 48: The 2-3 multiplier is not well justified for marine mammals. See the suggested references in the
ussion section comments.
have adjusted this and provided the references suggested
oduction:
es 66-67: remove the comma between “circulation” and “and water ”. Replace the semi colon
ween “temperature” and “which” with a comma.
s has been done
es 68-72: This is a long and cumbersome sentence. I suggest shortening and re-wording.
have revised this sentence
es 79-80: “While considerable work has been done on the diving physiology of seals and sea lions,
nical and logistical limitations have prevented comparable measurements in wild cetaceans.”
s sentence should be modified to more accurately reflect the focus of the present study. While the
ve statement is true, the manuscript does not discuss diving physiology. The manuscript solely focuses
espiratory physiology and metabolic rates of resting dolphins at the surface. I suggest rephrasing the
ence. There have also been more bioenergetics studies, including measuring FMRs, in free-ranging
nipeds, and that statement is more in line with the focus of this manuscript.
have revised this sentence as suggested.
es 101-102: “Because respiratory and diving physiology are difficult to study in free ranging
phins, normal lung function for healthy animals is poorly understood [13,14].”
wever, the authors and others have studied respiratory physiology on healthy animals in captivity, so
is “normal lung function for healthy animals poorly understood”? Also, do we need to study diving
siology to understand normal lung function in healthy animals? Given that diving is not a component
he present study, it seems like discussions of diving physiology are not relevant here.
ellent points and we have revised this section.
es 103-105: “We therefore compared data collected from wild animals with data from dolphins
aged under human care to assess if such measurements may provide information that is relevant to
h populations.”
s manuscript does not directly compare the bulk of the results from the present study to data from
phins in managed care (with the exception of some broad comparisons of ranges for some of the
ables in the discussion). I assumed the focus of this manuscript would be a comparison of the data
ected from wild dolphins in the present study with the data collected by the same method from captive
phins, which would validate these methods as useful for free-ranging animals. Captive animals that
trained in advance of measurements can be de-sensitized to the equipment and handling by humans,
are expected to have fewer factors (stress response, psychological response, response to restraint)
influence RMR measurements and potentially other variables the authors measured. See Rosen and
es (2013), Rechsteiner et al. (2013), and Worthy et al. (2014) for discussions regarding the effects of
ning, psychological state, and other factors on measuring accurate BMRs and RMRs in odontocetes.
orous comparisons of relevant results from the present study (adult values, to match body mass of
jects from the previous work of the authors) and results from the previously published work (Fahlman
l. 2016) would help justify the utility of these methods on free-ranging dolphins.
agree that these are important aspects to consider and are grateful for the excellent comments and
ut from the referee. We have gone through the paper and made changes to the excellent point about the
ies on managed care animals showing that the metabolic rate is close to Kleiber and changed this
ughout the paper.
erials and Methods:
re detail is needed regarding the duration in which respirometry data were collected per animal.
ation of time is important for accurately estimating RMR (Compher et al. 2006), which the authors
point out later in the discussion. Is a minimum of 3 min sufficient? Periods of 3-15 min of continuous
data were included in the analysis, which is a pretty large range, compared to the consistent
ations of data collection reported in the most recent studies on captive dolphins. If duration of session
included in the statistical analysis, would it be significant? Were younger animals measured for
rter durations? Age plus duration of sessions might influence the variables measured. The most recent
ies that have reported RMRs in odontocete cetaceans used a minimum of 5 min of continuous data
ection via flow-through methods to estimate RMR. For example, Worthy et al. (2014) calculated
MR” from the most consistently stable portion (minimum of 15 min) of each 15-30 min measurement
l, Rosen and Trites (2013) and Rechsteiner et al. (2013) calculated RMR from the last 10 min of ~20
trials, Yeates and Houser (2008) calculated RMR from the most level 5 min of 10-20 min trials,
en et al. (2013 and 2017) calculated RMR from the most level 5 min during the last 8 min of the 10
baseline component of social sound production and echolocation click production trials.
restingly, with the exception of RMRs measured in Pacific white-sided dolphins, which are known for
r high activity levels (Rechsteiner et al. 2013), recently measured RMR values in odontocetes are
ilar to or only slightly elevated above Kleiber predicted BMRs. This differs from results of previous
ies on dolphins (see Table 3 in Yazdi et al. 1999). This may be due to the achievement of obtaining
al resting states by ensuring that animals are calm prior to initiating measurement periods and
ording data for longer durations. The authors should evaluate their data in this respect to assess how
r estimated RMRs vary with body size as well as the duration of the session (specifically, the duration
he trial in which the data were collected to calculate RMR as well as the duration of time that animals
e restrained prior to collecting data) for wild dolphins.
s is a great point and we have attempted to revise the manuscript to better describe the procedure.
ically, most animals had been on deck or in water for at least 30 min before we began measurements.
measurements were then done for up to 60 min, but as there is a lot of sampling going on at the same
e, we could not get continuous measurements for each animal, but selected period of stable values that
e at least 3 min long, in most cases much longer, and up to 15 consecutive minutes.
e 149: “As detailed in Fahlman, Loring [16]” should be changed to “As detailed in Fahlman et al.
]”
s has been changed.
AIC tables are presented. This makes it impossible to know which experimental covariates were
lyzed and how well the best-fit models out-performed other models. At a minimum, AIC tables should
ncluded as supplementary information if not presented in the results section.
have supplied additional information in regards for our strategy to select models and included the chi-
are values of nested models. We would be happy to upload tables for the analysis of each model, but
sider this to be supplementary information at best. As we are uploading the full data sets, anyone that
ld like to check the results can repeat the analysis.
ults:
mentioned previously, duration of trials should be given in conjunction with the other results.
s has been revised
es 178-179: “The average respiratory frequency (fR) during trials was 2.7 ± 1.3 breaths min-1
ge: 0.8-5.6)”.
.6 supposed to be 6.5? According to Table 1, 6.5 is the largest fR. There is also a fR value of 5.8 in the
e, so I’m not sure how 5.6 is the largest value in the range?
nk you and we have corrected this
there any relationships between the exhalation and the subsequent inhalation flow durations?
entially, inspiratory flow seldom changes, or within a very narrow margin, while expiratory flow
nges considerably. We have not seen a relationship and none was found in the current study
y are equations 3 and 4 included in the results? Given that “water” and “male” are not numeric
es, these equations cannot be used for predictive purposes. I suggest simply presenting the AIC and
istical results.
believe that these equations provide valuable information about the physiology. The equations can be
d for predictive purposes, as the user would define whether the dolphin is in water (1) or on land (0),
hether it is male (1) or female (0). Providing AICs is of limited interests as those data are only valid
nested models, and these do not provide any predictive information. We therefore hope that the referee
permit us to keep these equations.
es 206-207: “Resting oxygen consumption rate, VO2, was estimated for periods during which the
phin remained calm and ranged from 3 min to 15 min in duration (Table 1).”
le 1 does not include resting VO2 rate nor duration of measurement periods, so, as this sentence
ds, Table 1 shouldn’t be cited here. However, both trial duration and VO2 rate should be included in
le 1 for transparency. Furthermore, given that 3 min is a relatively short time to measure RMR (see
ier comment), an analysis should be done to determine how/if duration of the trial influences RMR
es. This analysis would also need to incorporate sex, body mass, year, and in/out of the water. If
rt trials produce VO2 results with higher variability, only longer duration trials (e.g., 5-10 min
imum duration) should be included in the additional analyses/discussion related to RMR.
s is an excellent point and we have changed it to Fig. 1.
disagree with the referee about including both duration and as the latter is reported in the figure,
we do not believe that data should be reported several times. However, we will “upload” the entire
set when this paper is published to provide transparency.
agree with the referee that the duration of a respirometry trial is important and our results did not
w any significant effect of spirometry duration and metabolic cost. There are several reasons for this
one is that it is very difficult to make comparisons between the regular dome type respirometry trials
are commonly done, where in our experience the animals are generally much more anxious. In
ition, dome trials are much more sensitive to the trial duration because of the long response times. In
current system, we measure the instantaneous immediately and there is no delay. In the best of
s, dome trials have response times of around 2 min so adding this to 5 min would be equivalent. In
ition, the “trial” duration of 3 min is not really accurate and we have revised the text as this is the
imum trial duration with a calm animal where we caught every breath. The dolphins were either
rained in the water or on the boat during much longer durations, up to 60 min, and in most cases we
sured breaths during much of this period. However, there were times when we had to remove the
ipment as other samples were taken, or the animal moved. We therefore were extremely conservative
electing data and sections to be included in our data. We realize that this is not clear in the material
methods and we have revised this section.
es 207-208: “The estimated metabolic rates varied substantially within and among animals and the
s-specific VO2 (s VO2) ranged from 0.76 ml min-1 kg-1 to 9.45 ml O2 min-1 kg-1 (Fig. 1).”
possible that the MRs varied “substantially within animals” due to differences in duration of trials.
e daily variation in MR is certainly expected, but results shouldn’t be “substantially” divergent
in an individual (given no year effect), unless this divergence is only related to being in or out of the
er. How many times were animals sampled per day? Are there explanations for this finding?
his point, the most likely explanations are given in the discussion. For example, variation in response
andling, when the animal last ate, variation in physiology and body condition are all likely reasons for
large variability. Most measurements are averages from around 2 to 5 repeated measurements (each a
tinuous measurement of at least 3 and as long as 15 min) of the same animal on the same day.
cussion:
es 217-218: “Our data indicate that the RMR rate scales with Mb, with an allometric exponent that is
siderably lower than that of terrestrial mammals (0.43±0.18).”
there any publications that report within species comparisons of RMR for terrestrial mammals? It is
ly that the smaller range in body mass as well as the inclusion of immature animals (not typically
sured for studies on BMR because the inclusion of immature animals violates one of the key
umptions of BMR) drives the value of the exponent. Juvenile animals that are growing have elevated
abolic rates so a smaller exponent across the range of body masses might be expected when making a
parison to an allometric equation that only includes adult animals. A similar study within a single
cies of mammals that also includes immature animals would be a more relevant comparison here.
have separated the analysis, as suggested and the data indicate that in the adult animals within this
ght range there was no relationship with Mb. We have revised the manuscript to describe this.
o, given that the results here are specific to bottlenose dolphins and for clarity that the 0.43 value is
all dolphin data, I suggest rephrasing the sentence to: “Our data indicate that bottlenose dolphin
R rate across all ages scales with Mb, with an allometric exponent (0.43±0.18) that is considerably
er than that of adult terrestrial mammals [47, 48].” A statement should be added after this sentence
the inclusion of young, immature animals is likely to be one of the reasons why the exponents differ.
have added a comment to specifically mention this.
at would the allometric exponent be if all immature animals were discarded from this specific
lysis? Are values for adult (and possibly larger juvenile) dolphins similar to what would be expected
mammalian allometric relationships?
data do not support a relationship for the adult animals, most likely as we are not measuring Basal
abolic Rate.
es 220-222 “These data will need to be compared with those measured in animals under human care,
he context of differences in experimental design, sample size, or actual differences with wild
phins.”
en the inclusion of three age classes in these analyses, I caution the authors against attributing any
erence they may find to wild vs. captive animals. As stated above, most of the allometric equations in
siology are derived from adult animals only. Body morphology and physiology changes with age and
elopment. Unless there is access to captive animals that span the same age range, a comparison will
ly yield very different results. The authors need to acknowledge upfront that some of their results
ld be attributed to the inclusion of immature animals. If the data are sufficient, I recommend that the
hors present two allometric exponents per each variable (RMR, respiratory flow, VT, etc.) – One that
udes all animals and one that excludes the immature animals (especially calves). At a minimum the
hors should assess whether their values for adults are similar to what would be expected by
mmalian allometric relationships.
calves were used in this study, all animals were > 2 years of age (end of lactation). We have removed
sentence and agree with the referee that the results do not support this statement.
es 225-227: “which is similar to previous data for the bottlenose dolphin [27.5-226 58.8 ml Kg-1, 16,
20], the harbor porpoise [39.3 to 52.6 ml kg-1 in 21], and gray whale [12.0 to 35.3 ml kg-1, 22].”
three “kg-1” in the sentence should be corrected to “kg-1”
have not found a way to superscript the kg-1 within an endnote reference, but have attempted to do
after the hyperlinks have been removed.
es 238-239: “The expiratory flow rate was 50% higher as compared with the inspiratory flow rate for
0 kg dolphin, and decreased to 28% for a 300 kg animal.”
s statement is a bit confusing. For clarity, I suggest editing the sentence to: The expiratory flow rate
50% higher than the inspiratory flow rate for a 70 kg dolphin. This relative difference between
iratory and inspiratory flow rates decreased to 28% for a 300 kg animal.
s has been revised, thank you.
es 240-241: “Thus, smaller animals had a relatively higher flow as compared with the larger animals
the shorter expiratory duration assured that inspired and expired VT were equal.”
s sentence is a little confusing and should be edited for clarity. Also, how do shorter expiratory
ations assure that inspired and expired VT are equal?
nk you, this has been revised. The animals adjust expiratory flow and duration for the same VT.
efully the revised sentence is now clearer.
es 267-269: “Most of these measurements are limited in scope and indicate that the mass-specific
R is considerably higher in aquatic species than in their terrestrial counterparts.”
not sure what “limited in scope” is supposed to mean here. Many of the older studies, during which
dolphins were measured for shorter durations, constrained in boxes, etc. reported considerably
her RMRs. But several more recent studies on odontocetes that have measured respiratory gases from
viduals for longer durations and had spent time conditioning the animals to the experimental protocol
r to conducting the experiments report MRs that are at or near basal predictions (1-1.3X Kleiber-
dicted BMR; Noren et al. 2013 and 2017, Rosen and Trites 2013, Worthy et al. 2014, Yeates and
ser 2008). These findings need to be acknowledged here.
nderful, thank you and this is great information and suggestions. We have altered the text to include
comment and have revised the text throughout to remove the comments about the differences with
aged care animals.
es 273-276 The authors state that experimental design and conditions significantly alter results and
lain large differences in RMR. This is true – differences in the penguin RMRs are likely attributed to
effects of fasting, body condition, and thermal regime on metabolic rates. There are several pinniped
a few delphinid papers that support this as well. Given the discussion is on marine mammals, the
hors might consider citing these references. See the review and references within Rosen et al. 2007.
, for thermal effects on metabolic rates in dolphins see Yeates and Houser 2008 and references
in.
ther excellent point and this has been revised to include the references above showing how a variety
actors may alter RMR.
es 277-279: “In past studies, the mass-specific RMR for bottlenose dolphins in water ranged from 4.6-
ml O2 min-1 kg-1 [Mb range 125-250 kg, 8, 16, 27, 32, 37, 46].”
s range is not representative of the entire range that has been reported. The authors need to update
range and the references. This is important for the comparisons of their findings to those that have
n reported. Several recent studies that measured the dolphins for longer periods of time report lower
R than the range given by the authors. For example Yeates and Houser (2008) reported mass specific
R values of 3-4.4 ml O2 min-1 kg-1 for bottlenose dolphins ranging from 177-220 kg. Noren et al.
3 and 2017 reported baseline RMR values for similarly sized dolphins that are also within the range
orted by Yeates and Houser (see figures in Noren et al. 2013 and 2017 and supplemental data from
en et al. 2017). Throughout the manuscript the authors report that their values are much lower than
es measured by others, and that is not the case for more recent studies.
d point and we have updated these statements and included additional references. The body masses
not reported in Noren et al. 2013 and 2017 so we are not including those.
es 279-281: While the measured values from past studies were in the same range as the values
orted in the current study (Fig. 1), a considerable number of measurements in the weight range from
-250 kg were lower [Fig. 1, 16, 27, 32, 37, 46].
his statement still correct with the new range of values when the other references from above are
uded? If so, I assume the statement is that the values in the present study are lower? It is a little
iguous as written. If the statement is still accurate, I suggest rephrasing it to:
le the measured values from past studies were in the same range as the values reported here (Fig.1),
nsiderable number of measurements in the weight range from 145-250 kg were lower in the present
y [Fig. 1, 16, 27, 32, 37, 46].
is is no longer a correct statement, then a major revision of this sentence is warranted.
have revised as we agree with the referee that it seems that our measurements are similar to those
orted in more recent studies and support the idea that RMR is close to or similar to Kleiber
o, as mentioned earlier, is there a difference in the duration of respirometry data collection with age
ss or length) of individuals? If so, can this be accounted for? Without a sufficient duration of data
ection, respirometry values can be skewed.
agree with the referee about this, but if inclusion of the younger animals would skew the data, it
ld be to increase the mass-exponent. Similarly, shorter respirometry durations would rather tend to
ease metabolic rates, not result in lower values so while we agree with the referees concern, we
eve that the experimental design is sound and we have revised the text to better describe the
cedure.
o, see comment on Figure 1. A second panel that reports mass-specific values would be useful for
parisons to earlier studies. Where sufficient data are available (body mass and VO2), data points
m previous studies could also be added to the figure for ease of comparison.
ellent points and please see response below and changes to the figure.
es 282-287: See earlier points regarding the inclusion of calves influencing the allometric equation.
mparing allometric equations derived from terrestrial mammals is not equivalent unless there are
estrial mammal species-specific allometric equations that also include immature individuals.
agree with the referee and have separated the analysis.
es 289-291: “The difference on land may reflect a higher cost of breathing when on land, as
iration requires the dolphin to overcome its own full weight.”
s is definitely likely to be one factor. But, I think another factor that is important to state is that these
phins are not trained to haul out. So, this experimental design involves two potential factors that could
ease MR: 1) physical because it may be harder to breathe on land and 2) psychological because these
mals are likely to be very stressed out of the water since this is an unnatural state for them – more so
n being restrained but still in the water. The only way to verify which factor is most important would
o repeat this on animals that are trained to slide out onto mats. For example, the US Navy dolphins.
revised analysis does not support this so this has been removed/revised. However, this is a good point
part of our on-going work.
es 322-324: “In the current study we used the same equipment as in our previous study, and as the
iratory durations were longer in the current study, which should increase the accuracy.” This
ence is awkwardly worded, please edit.
s has been revised
es 312-315: This is a good point that should be acknowledged earlier, as I commented above
s has been revised
e 325: change “affect” to “affected”
s has been revised
e 327: Given the most recent minimum values of RMR for captive studies (see comment above), I don’t
k it can be stated that values reported here are significantly lower than those of animals under human
e.
s has been revised
es 328-329: Excellent discussion regarding the effect of stress on MR. Some dolphins also stop
athing during captures. Because of that respiration rates are closely monitored during these capture
rations. How do respiration rates of these restrained individuals compare to free-swimming dolphins?
erstandably exercising dolphins may have elevated RR, but what about resting dolphins? Did these
tured dolphins appear to “shut-down” a bit?
respiratory frequencies are similar to those reported in resting animals, from previous studies. None
he animals tested appeared to shut-down, and any animal captured that was deemed stressed was
ased. These captures include a number of experienced veterinarians and animal welfare is the most
ortant criteria for each animal studied.
es 333-334: “In previous studies, the resting period ranged from 40 s to 4.5 min [16, 27, 32].”
s is true for the older studies, and as correctly postulated, is likely to be why many of the earlier RMR
es are elevated. However more recent studies on odontocetes, including 3 studies on bottlenose
phins, required individuals to rest for 10-20 min under the metabolic hood and then only analyzed
tinuous steady-state VO2 data for a minimum period of 5-10 min during that resting session.
sequently these studies reported RMRs that were closer to Kleiber predicted measurements (Noren et
2013, 2017; Rosen and Trites 2013; Worthy et al. 2014; Yeates and Houser 2008). These findings
uld be incorporated into the range of resting values reported previously.
s is a good point and we have included this in the previous sections and revised this section.
es 344-348: range for previously measured RMR needs to be updated (3.0 ml O2 min-1 kg-1 is the
imum) and additional references included (Noren et al. 2013, 2017; Yeates and Houser 2008)
s has been updated, thank you.
es 352-354: The references (Ricklefs et al. 1996, Speakman et al. 2003) don’t really support the
roach to use a multiplier of 2-3X Kleiber-predicted BMR for marine mammal field metabolic rates.
re are several field metabolic rate studies on marine mammals that are more appropriate references.
ch of the work done on marine mammals supports using 5-6X Kleiber-predicted BMR (a minimum of
X Kleiber-predicted BMR) as an estimate for FMR. Refer to the references within Bejarano et al. 2017
Noren 2011.
in, thank you and we have adjusted the values from 3-6 times Kleiber
e 400-401 competing interests statement in acknowledgements is redundant to line 383
s has been removed
les and Figures:
are sorry for that the legend was missing and it should be included now in all tables and figures.
le 1: Missing the title and legend. Given the lack of this information, I am not sure what “N”
gnates. Is it the number of breaths per animal? Also, total duration of each measurement session
uld be included for each trial. This is because, as stated previously (and by the authors), the duration
me that respirometry data are collected is important for obtaining valid data to determine steady
e RMR in marine mammals that breathe apnuestically. How is there a “---“ in the N (air or water)
mn, yet there is a corresponding value for fR? What do the “---“designate? Are air and water
surements done sequentially in the same session, on the same day, etc.? If multiple measurements
e taken on the same day, then some assessment on how this may influence results needed. Without the
nd or footnotes, I’m unable to decipher some of the variables in this table.
the number of breaths used in the analysis. As the breathing frequency is reported, this would give an
mate of the duration used for estimating the metabolic rate. However, remember that the “actual”
ation was considerably longer, and the duration used was only when the animal was continuously
sured.
some animals, we could not get enough measurements to estimate certain variables but were still able
stimate fR so this is reported. For example, when there was a leak we excluded data for flow and
es, but we still used this to estimate fR.
ure 1: Missing title and caption. Also, given the useful discussion of mass-specific metabolic rate and
parisons across several studies, it is important to also present mass-specific values of VO2 in a
ond panel of this figure. Furthermore, the y-axis needs to be corrected - change VO2 to VO2.
changes have been made to the figure and we have updated the figure with a comparison from
vious studies.
ure 2: Missing title and caption.
s has been revised
ure 3: Missing title and caption.
s has been revised
erences:
mpher C., Frankenfield D., Keim N., Roth-Yousey L. 2006. Best Practice Methods to Apply to
asurement of Resting Metabolic Rate in Adults: A Systematic Review. Journal of the American
tetic Association 106(6): 881-903, ISSN 0002-8223, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jada.2006.02.009.
p://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0002822306001465)
en D.P., Holt M.M., Dunkin R.C., Williams T.M. 2013. The metabolic cost of communicative sound
duction in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). The Journal of Experimental Biology 216:1624-
9.
en D.P., Holt M.M., Dunkin R.C., Williams T.M. 2017. Echolocation is cheap for some mammals:
phins conserve oxygen while producing high-intensity clicks. Journal of Experimental Marine Biology
Ecology 495:103-109.
hsteiner E.U., Rosen D.A.S., Trites A.W. 2013. Seasonal resting metabolic rate and food intake of
tive Pacific white-sided dolphins (Lagenorhynchus obliquidens). Aquatic Mammals 39: 241-252.
en D.A.S. and Trites A.W. 2013. Resting metabolic rate of a mature male beluga whale,
phinapterus leucas. Aquatic Mammals 38: 85-88.
en D.A.S., Winship A.J., Hoopes L.A. 2007. Thermal and digestive constraints to foraging behaviour
ine mammals. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B. 362:2151-2168.
en D.A.S. and Trites A.W. 2013. Resting metabolic rate of a mature beluga whale (Delphinapterus
as). Aquatic Mammals 39:85-88.
rthy G.A.J., Worthy T.A.M., Yochem P.K., Dold C. 2014. Basal metabolism of an adult male killer
le (Orcinus orca). Marine Mammal Science 30:1229-1237.
di P., Kilian A., Culik, B. 1999. Energy expenditure of swimming bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops
catus). Marine Biology 134: 601-607. https://doi.org/10.1007/s002270050575
tes L.C. and Houser D.S. 2008. Thermal tolerance in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus). The
rnal of Experimental Biology 211:3249-3257.
iewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
s is a well written manuscript that reports on the respiratory physiology and resting metabolic rate of
tly restrained, wild bottlenose dolphins. The study is most valuable for its large sample size which is
possible with captive dolphins. The results validate previous measurements. In this regard, there were
major discoveries. However, the sample size is unprecedented and therefore is an important
tribution to the literature. I have two criticisms. First, the study is primarily physiological and stands
ts own merits. I see no need to link it to climate change, which I find gratuitous. Hence the first
agraph is unneeded. Linking the measurements to estimates of field metabolic rate are also weak since
authors assume a multiplier for resting metabolic rate. Again, this is a weak addition to the
uscript which should focus on physiology. Secondly, the allometric analysis produced regressions
R-squared coefficients that were too low for useful conclusions- the data are too variable. Under
e circumstances, the best that can be done is a simple mean over the range of body masses.
cussing non-significant trends is not helpful. Nevertheless, the overall data set is valuable and the
hors are to be commended for their efforts.
thank the referee for the constructive comments to our submitted paper. In regards to the allometric
lysis, we have made considerable changes to this based on the comments of the first referee and most
tionships are now mostly described as averages.
appreciate the referee’s comments about linking this work to climate change, and extending this to
d metabolic rates. However, as understanding field metabolic rate of marine vertebrates is an
ortant aspects of understanding their response to climate change, and as the resting metabolic rate is
n used as the basic unit, which is then multiplied in bioenergetics models to estimate field metabolic
, we firmly believe that this is important for the paper and we hope that the referee is willing to let us
p these ideas.
Society Open
