Tuberculosis-like respiratory infection in 245-million-year-
old marine reptile suggested by bone pathologies
Dawid Surmik, Tomasz Szczygielski, Katarzyna Janiszewska and Bruce M. Rothschild
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180225.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180225
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 November 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 9 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 28 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
3rd revised submission: 15 April 2018
Final acceptance: 24 April 2018
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171925.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Michael Zimmerman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
As above
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See Appendix A.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Israel Hershkovitz)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
1. The association with TB is not definite, it is an option (albeit logical). Recommend to reduce the
tone and speak more about the uncertainties of paleopathology.
2. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of button osteoma (see Eshed et
al in AJPA)
3. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of Gardner syndrome
4. . Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of repeated blows to the body
(see Hershkovitz et al). Boxers commonly show these osteomas.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171925.R0)
01-Feb-2018
Dear Mr Surmik:
Manuscript ID RSOS-171925 entitled "Respiratory infection in 245-million-years-old marine
reptile suggested by bone pathologies" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has
been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 01-Aug-2018. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
4
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Doube (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Doube):
Dear Mr Surmik,
Three reviewers have seen your manuscript and express a high degree of interest in your work,
however, before it is ready for publication you must incorporate their suggestions relating to
your speculation about the definitive diagnosis of TB (see suggestions from R3) and about
behavioural and epidemiological inferences (R2).
I look forward to handling a revision of your manuscript.
Kind regards,
Dr Michael Doube
Subject Editor Comments to Authors:
The comments of the first reviewer were not helpful and the third reviewer's were brief but
serious, to the effect that the authors have not shown evidence for their hypothesis above other
options. The second reviewer's considered comments reinforce this, remarking that the specimen
is interesting but the interpretations highly problematic. Clinical diagnoses are based on
diagnostic features of the presentation of a disease, as the authors know. It would be best to state
clearly the diagnostic features of each potential cause and weigh what is known; and if required,
to soften definitive conclusions and statements. Thanks for submitting.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
There are rare minor grammatical errors, which are probably due to translation, as the authors do
not appear to be native English speakers. These errors have no effect on the message of the paper,
which extends the evolution of mycobacterial disease by millions of years.
5
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I agree with the authors that the blebs on the ribs are very interesting and represent an odd
pathological condition. However, I am not convinced by their diagnosis of pneumonia, especially
after reading the first sentence of their abstract, which states “Except for the historical written
sources, there are neither archaeological nor palaeontological proofs for pneumonia in the remote
past” [Lines 14-15]. This statement suggests that we have no known pneumonia condition that
has affected the skeleton and thus, have no true comparison to use for the fossil. I would assume
that in order to diagnose long-term pneumonia in a skeleton for the first time, you would need to
examine an individual who was known to have had such a condition. In fact, I do not think the
authors believe it is pneumonia either as they keep comparing their finds to tuberculosis. I also
do not agree with some of their histological interpretations. Both of these concerns I address in
the attached document.
Lastly, I am very concerned with the assumptions they are making about the origin of TB and the
behavior of marine reptiles. I do not see how either of these conclusions add to the paper. They
seem like they were added as a “wow” factor. Their conclusions seem to be: “because we think
this marine reptile has TB, 1) TB originated in marine environments and 2) this marine reptiles
behaved like seals”. That is WAY too much speculation. What does this have to do with your
study, with an N=1? I think they might deserve a sentence or two saying how this diagnosis
could lead to further understanding of both TB and marine reptiles, but two whole sections in the
discussion is a bit much, especially for one tentative diagnosis. The pathology in its self is
important enough for publication.
Over all, I feel that the authors present a very interesting pathological condition, but they must
reassess their interpretations of both the XMT and histology and be much more conservative with
their conclusions.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
1. The association with TB is not definite, it is an option (albeit logical). Recommend to reduce the
tone and speak more about the uncertainties of paleopathology.
2. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of button osteoma (see Eshed et
al in AJPA)
3. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of Gardner syndrome
4. . Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of repeated blows to the body
(see Hershkovitz et al). Boxers commonly show these osteomas.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171925.R0)
See Appendix B.
6
label_version_2
RSOS-180225.R0
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180225.R0)
19-Mar-2018
Dear Mr Surmik,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Respiratory infection in 245-million-years-old marine
reptile suggested by bone pathologies") has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions
which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this
decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11-Apr-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
7
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to each of the comments, and the adjustments you have
made. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as
possible in your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180225
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
8
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Doube (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Doube):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Dear Mr Surmik,
Please find attached a number of comments that once incorporated will allow us to progress your
manuscript towards publication. This is the main point from the review: "adding two paragraphs
on behavior and the evolution of TB, it takes away from the interesting pathology and makes it
seem like you are extrapolating beyond what this single specimen can tell you." Please confine
your discussion to that which is relevant to your study and explained by it, and restrain your
speculation and extrapolations. Also, please make reference to the literature, where suitable
studies exist.
Best regards,
Michael Doube, PhD
9
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you for looking through and addressing my comments. I feel that you have made many
improvements to the paper, but I still have a few comments and concerns that I would like you to
address.
Firstly, I would like to clear up the misinterpretation about my criticism over sample size and
speculation in the discussion. Concerning the small sample size, I completely understand that
such small sample sizes are normal for paleopathology studies. I was more concerned about
using this single fossil specimen to make inferences about behavior of marine reptiles and the
evolution of a particular disease. I feel that you have a really interesting pathological condition
that you are presenting, which is all that is needed to make this a strong and significant paper. By
adding two paragraphs on behavior and the evolution of TB, it takes away from the interesting
pathology and makes it seem like you are extrapolating beyond what this single specimen can tell
you. This may not be the case, but presented as a single specimen rather than multiple incidences
in the fossil record, it makes it appear that you are basing all this from what you can see in the
one specimen.
Please see the attached document for my other comments. Note that the page number indicates
the page given in the upper left hand of the pdf (page x out of 57).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180225.R0)
See Appendix D.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180225.R1)
13-Apr-2018
Dear Mr Surmik:
Manuscript ID RSOS-180225.R1 entitled "Respiratory (apparent mycobacterial) infection in 245-
million-years-old marine reptile suggested by bone pathologies" which you submitted to Royal
Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the
bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-May-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
10
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
11
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Doube (Associate Editor) and Prof Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Editor comments to Author (Prof Kevin Padian):
I concur with the AE's comments. However, we cannot accept the manuscript in its present form
because the English needs to be revised for publication, and that is the responsibility of the
authors. (I regret that English is a very difficult and irregular language.) You have a co-author
who is a native speaker of English and the window of time available in a "major revision"
decision should be sufficient to correct the English. (I suggest reading it out loud for best results.)
Also, please remove the last four sentences of the conclusions; they are not warranted by any of
the investigation that you carried out, even if they are not controversial.
We will be unable to consider the manuscript further (i.e., after two rounds of review) if these
changes are not made in the final version. Thanks and good luck.
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Doube):
Dear Mr Surmik,
Thank you for incorporating the reviewer's many suggestions in your revised manuscript, which
is much more focussed on the presumptive diagnosis alone of TB than the previous versions. I
have recommended acceptance conditional on English language editing. In a number of places
12
articles are missing or inappropriate, or sentences need reformulating to scan naturally. Could
you also please use for XMT, the correct term "X-ray microtomography" (named so by its
inventors Elliott & Dover in J. Microsc 1982).
Regarding the title: I prefer the second option, "Tuberculosis-like respiratory infection in 245-
million-years-old marine reptile suggested by bone pathologies" (but note, it is "a 245-million-
year-old", not -years-old, in this context), or given your conclusion, "Presumptive diagnosis of
tuberculosis-like respiratory infection in a 245-million-year-old marine reptile" could be
appropriate.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180225.R1)
Dear Editor,
Regarding your request we have improved the English language, have corrected term "X-ray
microtomography" and have removed the last four sentences of the conclusions (at the request of
Subject Editor). The changes to the text are indicated by the change tracking tool. We highly
appreciate your efforts to improving our paper and hope that the current version will meet the
requirements for publication. Sincerely, Dawid Surmik. (See Appendix E).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180225.R2)
24-Apr-2018
Dear Mr Surmik,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Tuberculosis-like respiratory infection
in 245-million-year-old marine reptile suggested by bone pathologies" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
13
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Doube (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
authors present a very interesting pathology seen in the ribs of a Triassic marine reptile. Their
nosis is chronic pneumonia, which they make based on XMT and traditional histological analyses
pared to a number of different conditions seen in humans. The closest condition to what they observe
he marine reptile are blebs that appear on a human rib with tuberculosis (TB). In addition, based on
morphology of the Lines of Arrested Growth (LAGs) seen in histological section, they determine that
was a chronic condition lasting many years. Based on their findings, they postulate that bacterium
causes TB (M. tuberculosis) may have had marine origin and that this particular marine reptile may
e been gregarious since TB is usually more prevalent within large populations.
ree with the authors that the blebs on the ribs are very interesting and represent an odd pathological
dition. However, I am not convinced by their diagnosis of pneumonia, especially after reading the first
ence of their abstract, which states “Except for the historical written sources, there are neither
aeological nor palaeontological proofs for pneumonia in the remote past” [Lines 14-15]. This
ement suggests that we have no known pneumonia condition that has affected the skeleton and thus,
e no true comparison to use for the fossil. I would assume that in order to diagnose long-term
umonia in a skeleton for the first time, you would need to examine an individual who was known to
e had such a condition. In fact, I do not think the authors believe it is pneumonia either as they keep
paring their finds to tuberculosis. I also do not agree with some of their histological interepretations.
h of these concerns I address in more detail below.
tly, I am very concerned with the assumptions they are making about the origin of TB and the
avior of marine reptiles. I do not see how either of these conclusions add to the paper. They seem like
were added as a “wow” factor. Their conclusions seem to be: “because we think this marine reptile
TB, 1) TB originated in marine environments and 2) this marine reptiles behaved like seals”. That is
Y too much speculation. What does this have to do with your study, with an N=1? I think they might
erve a sentence or two saying how this diagnosis could lead to further understanding of both TB and
ine reptiles, but two whole sections in the discussion is a bit much, especially for one tentative
nosis. The pathology in its self is important enough for publication.
r all, I feel that the authors present a very interesting pathological condition, but they must reassess
r interpretations of both the XMT and histology and be much more conservative with their
clusions.
ailed comments:
oduction: Your introduction is full of human and other terrestrial mammal incidences of pneumonia
TB. There are tons of information on pneumonia in reptiles and, for marine critters, cetaceans that
could add (I see you mention pinnipeds later on). That being said, most of these incidences are in
tivity, where they are usually attributed to close live quarters with other animals and high stress,
ing to a rapid spread of pneumonia. It also occurs occasionally in gregarious animals (as you pointed
. Same with TB. I’m curious how these conditions look in wild populations who live in isolation or
ller groups.
umonia versus TB: You mention pneumonia, but all of your reference material is from tuberculosis.
y do you not just say this is the possible oldest incidence of TB? I understand that both conditions are
iratory conditions, but why not just say that this is the first incidence of TB, which does show skeletal
elates? Even so, TB rarely affects the skeleton (~2% in archaeological samples; Waldron, 2009), so
would be a very rare incidence. TB is also largely contained in the vertebral column (again, in
ans), which you do mention in Lines 77-79. Though please explain for those who are not familiar
h the condition what “Pott’s Disease” is.
gnosis of TB: You cite 2 papers, both from the same study, on human ribs, some of which had TB. Of
hose studied, only one showed a morphology similar to the blebs you get in the marine reptile. I am
sure you can rely on this. However, the blebs are very interesting and I am very keen to see what they
n. Are there perhaps any zoological conditions that show similar morphologies?
es 83-86: Could you give a reason to why you dismiss the rugose surface texture to blood vessels
er than with the bone pathology? Do you see the same texture on the non-affected ribs?
ure 2: What you have interpreted as periosteal thickening is the last deposition of bone, which may be
ering in width due to a number of other physiological processes that have no connection with the
ology such as changing in bone shape (ex. rib is becoming more bowed). I also don’t see any signs of
wed growth like the beginning of an Outer Circumferential Layer (OCL), so I’m guessing this is an
vidual that is still growing. The only periosteal reaction would thus be the blebs.
es 105-107: “The outer zone of the bone in the ventral, ventro-caudal and ventro cranial regions is
rply separated. Its base is dark in transmitted light and milky in polarized light.” This is probably due
thicker part of the histology section more than anything. You often get dark areas in thin sections
sed by either thick areas or by “bubbling” (thin section begins to peel off the slide).
es 108-112: “Interestingly, the older LAGs reveal the presence of several well-vascularized, bleb-like
trusions of comparable sizes and positions to those present on the surface, which were subsequently
ered by younger zones of less-vascularized bone (figure 2, electronic supplementary material movie
This suggests a chronic disease, with symptoms spanning several seasons.” Are you suggesting the
y texture of the LAGs = previous surface blebs? You can also get wavy LAGs without such
ologies, something that has been observed in sauropterygians (ex. Klein et al., 2015). It is more likely
you happened to cut through a haversian canal oriented longitudinally.
es 119-121: “Taphonomic explanations of branching channels are essentially limited to fungal
ase, a consideration excluded because of size discrepancy (the diameter of fungal hyphae is five times
er).” You need a reference here.
ure Caption 1: Figure 1: What do you mean by “before it was damaged”? Did something happen to the
cimen prior to sampling or do you mean before destructive analysis was conducted? Looks like the
mer, in which case, what happened? Is that in the SI? Also, anything on the gastralia? If this is a
iratory condition, then I would expect the gastralia might show something as well.
ure Caption 3B: What is “endosteal lamellar bone”? It should all be labeled as lamellar bone. Lamellar
e= tissue type, endosteal is just the position within the bone cortex, so you would have to also say
riosteal lamellar bone” as well.
pendix B
ar Editor,
ar Reviewers,
highly appreciate all valuable comments on our manuscript as well as your effort in reading
considering our paper. We have considered all concerns indicated by the Reviewers and
ressed them point-by-point. We do believed that the revised version will meet the journal
lication requirements.
viewer #1: There are rare minor grammatical errors, which are probably due to translation, as
authors do not appear to be native English speakers. These errors have no effect on the
ssage of the paper, which extends the evolution of mycobacterial disease by millions of
rs.
thors: Thank you. We corrected grammatical errors.
viewer #2: The authors present a very interesting pathology seen in the ribs of a Triassic
rine reptile. Their diagnosis is chronic pneumonia, which they make based on XMT and
itional histological analyses compared to a number of different conditions seen in humans.
closest condition to what they observe on the marine reptile are blebs that appear on a
man rib with tuberculosis (TB). In addition, based on the morphology of the Lines of
ested Growth (LAGs) seen in histological section, they determine that this was a chronic
dition lasting many years. Based on their findings, they postulate that bacterium that causes
(M. tuberculosis) may have had marine origin and that this particular marine reptile may
e been gregarious since TB is usually more prevalent within large populations.
ree with the authors that the blebs on the ribs are very interesting and represent an odd
hological condition. However, I am not convinced by their diagnosis of pneumonia,
ecially after reading the first sentence of their abstract, which states “Except for the historical
tten sources, there are neither archaeological nor palaeontological proofs for pneumonia in
remote past” [Lines 14-15]. This statement suggests that we have no known pneumonia
dition that has affected the skeleton and thus, have no true comparison to use for the fossil.
thors: We disagree. This is clearly documented in the relatively young archeologic and recent
letal record. Our point was that this is the first time it had been noted in such an ancient
mal. We modified this sentence to clarify this.
viewer #2: I would assume that in order to diagnose long-term pneumonia in a skeleton for
first time, you would need to examine an individual who was known to have had such a
dition. In fact, I do not think the authors believe it is pneumonia either as they keep
paring their finds to tuberculosis.
thors: The reviewer is missing an important point. Tuberculosis is one of the causes of
umonia, the one inferred in this manuscript.
viewer #2: I also do not agree with some of their histological interepretations. Both of these
cerns I address in more detail below.
thors: Our responses on histology below.
viewer #2: Lastly, I am very concerned with the assumptions they are making about the
in of TB and the behavior of marine reptiles. I do not see how either of these conclusions
to the paper. They seem like they were added as a “wow” factor. Their conclusions seem to
“because we think this marine reptile has TB, 1) TB originated in marine environments and
his marine reptiles behaved like seals”.
thors: We do not suggest that marine reptiles behaved as seals, but that shared an
trophism.
viewer #2: That is WAY too much speculation.
thors: We disagree. Ecotrophism has been an often overlooked aspect of evolution and of
ead of infectious disease. Please note that our interpretations are abundantly supported by the
rature, so we try to avoid pure speculation as much as possible and try to link the known facts,
ead. Please also note that we enter the still not very common field of paleopathology, so we
to gather data from several lines of evidence and make the text useful, understandable, and
prehensive for a wide spectrum of readers, including biologists, ecologists, physicians,
eontologists, and geologists. This means that we sometimes have to state some facts that are
er obvious for some of these readers, but also we sometimes reach further away and link
e more distant fields of knowledge. Upon the Editor’s request, this section may be shortened
eft out, but we believe that there should be some field for interpretations in the scientific
cussions, as long as they are supported by the data and presented as hypotheses.
viewer #2: What does this have to do with your study, with an N=1?
thors: N=1 precludes statistical analysis (except perhaps for the unique methods of
ophysics, beyond the scope of this discussion), but does not preclude discussion of
lications. Much of the fossil record and its discussion have been derived from N=1
cimens.
viewer #2: I think they might deserve a sentence or two saying how this diagnosis could lead
urther understanding of both TB and marine reptiles…
thors: We agreed. We implemented several sentences saying how our diagnosis could expand
knowledge about evolutionary history of tuberculosis in the Conclusion section.
viewer #2: …but two whole sections in the discussion is a bit much, especially for one
ative diagnosis.
thors: While tentative may be a valid descriptor, in the absence of an alternative explanation,
e diagnosis appears fairly secure.
viewer #2: The pathology in its self is important enough for publication.
er all, I feel that the authors present a very interesting pathological condition, but they must
ssess their interpretations of both the XMT and histology and be much more conservative
h their conclusions.
thors: See below.
viewer #2: Detailed comments:
oduction: Your introduction is full of human and other terrestrial mammal incidences of
umonia and TB. There are tons of information on pneumonia in reptiles and, for marine
ters, cetaceans that you could add (I see you mention pinnipeds later on).
thors: True, but the discussion is of bone evidence of disease and one of the authors (BMR)
actually reviewed all that evidence, going back to Aristotle (Rothschild BM, Schultze H-P,
legrini R. Herpetologic Osteopathology: Annotated Bibliography of Amphibians and
tiles. Springer, 2012).
viewer #2: That being said, most of these incidences are in captivity, where they are usually
ibuted to close live quarters with other animals and high stress, leading to a rapid spread of
umonia. It also occurs occasionally in gregarious animals (as you pointed out). Same with
. I’m curious how these conditions look in wild populations who live in isolation or smaller
ups.
thors: The issue of spread between species, especially marine, documents the importance of
all interactions.
viewer #2: Pneumonia versus TB: You mention pneumonia, but all of your reference material
rom tuberculosis.
thors: In this case, tuberculosis is the cause of the pneumonia: tubercular pneumonia.
viewer #2: Why do you not just say this is the possible oldest incidence of TB? I understand
both conditions are respiratory conditions, but why not just say that this is the first incidence
TB, which does show skeletal correlates?
thors: The diagnosis of pneumonia is definitive in this specimen. The diagnosis of
erculosis is inferred. The blebs support such an inference (as indicated in the text), but we
fer not to overstate our data. (See the comment of the Reviewer #3, who says “The
ociation with TB is not definite, it is an option (albeit logical).”)
viewer #2: Even so, TB rarely affects the skeleton (~2% in archaeological samples; Waldron,
9), so this would be a very rare incidence. TB is also largely contained in the vertebral
umn (again, in humans), which you do mention in Lines 77-79. Though please explain for
se who are not familiar with the condition what “Pott’s Disease” is.
thors: The vertebral destruction with ventral collapse and fusion. We added this to the text
ere appropriate.
viewer #2: Diagnosis of TB: You cite 2 papers, both from the same study, on human ribs,
e of which had TB. Of all those studied, only one showed a morphology similar to the blebs
get in the marine reptile. I am not sure you can rely on this.
thors: Findings in over 30 individuals provides a substantial evidentiary base.
viewer #2: However, the blebs are very interesting and I am very keen to see what they
an. Are there perhaps any zoological conditions that show similar morphologies?
thors: None have been found to date and one of the authors (BMR) has examined over
000 animals.
viewer #2: Lines 83-86: Could you give a reason to why you dismiss the rugose surface
ure to blood vessels rather than with the bone pathology?
thors: It is the grooves that are ascribed to blood vessels.
viewer #2: Do you see the same texture on the non-affected ribs?
thors: Yes, they are very common in basal sauropterygians, not only on the ribs but also
other bones, and were previously documented, e.g., for Neusticosaurus spp. by Sander
89) - The pachypleurosaurids (Reptilia - Nothosauria) from the Middle Triassic of
nte San Giorgio (Switzerland) with the description of a new species - Philosophical
nsactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, 325, 561-666:
Figure from Sander (1989) shoving the sculpture of the humerus (a-c) and vertebra (d-f) of
sticosaurus pusillus (a-d) and N. edwardsi (e-f).
s ornamentation is exaggerated in the pathological region of our specimen possibly due
arger pressure caused by pathological bone growths.
viewer #2: Figure 2: What you have interpreted as periosteal thickening is the last deposition
one, which may be differing in width due to a number of other physiological processes that
e no connection with the pathology such as changing in bone shape (ex. rib is becoming
re bowed). I also don’t see any signs of slowed growth like the beginning of an Outer
cumferential Layer (OCL), so I’m guessing this is an individual that is still growing.
thors: It is clearly different in character.
viewer #2: The only periosteal reaction would thus be the blebs.
es 105-107: “The outer zone of the bone in the ventral, ventro-caudal and ventro cranial
ions is sharply separated. Its base is dark in transmitted light and milky in polarized light.”
s is probably due to a thicker part of the histology section more than anything. You often get
k areas in thin sections caused by either thick areas or by “bubbling” (thin section begins to
l off the slide).
thors: This notion was added to the text.
viewer #2: Lines 108-112: “Interestingly, the older LAGs reveal the presence of several well-
cularized, bleb-like protrusions of comparable sizes and positions to those present on the
face, which were subsequently covered by younger zones of less-vascularized bone (figure 2,
ctronic supplementary material movie S2). This suggests a chronic disease, with symptoms
nning several seasons.” Are you suggesting the wavy texture of the LAGs = previous surface
bs? You can also get wavy LAGs without such pathologies, something that has been
erved in sauropterygians (ex. Klein et al., 2015). It is more likely that you happened to cut
ugh a haversian canal oriented longitudinally.
thors: No, please look closely at the CT and photographs. We did not mean merely a small-
le (or vascular canal-scale) waviness of the LAGs, which is of course normal. We addressed
elsewhere in the text, referring to incorporation of surficial vasculature into the bone. Here,
mean large-scale, bleb-sized and bleb-shaped course of the LAGs, which is located in the
e approximate region of the bone as the surficial pathology and correlated with similar
reased vascularization inside of the bone – each of these large waves incorporates numerous
cular canals.
viewer #2: Lines 119-121: “Taphonomic explanations of branching channels are essentially
ited to fungal disease, a consideration excluded because of size discrepancy (the diameter of
gal hyphae is five times larger).” You need a reference here.
thors: Agreed. Complemented with Bennett JE. Mycoses. In Mandell GL, Bennet JE, Dolin
eds. Mandell, Douglas and Bennett’s Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases. 4th ed.
urchill Livingstone, New York, 1995: 2288-2289.
viewer #2: Figure Caption 1: Figure 1: What do you mean by “before it was damaged”? Did
ething happen to the specimen prior to sampling or do you mean before destructive analysis
conducted? Looks like the former, in which case, what happened? Is that in the SI?
thors: Corrected. The specimen was housed in the University of Wroclaw, where it was
stantially damaged during World War II.
viewer #2: Also, anything on the gastralia?
thors: No lesions have been found on the gastralia.
viewer #2: If this is a respiratory condition, then I would expect the gastralia might show
ething as well.
thors: Actually, tuberculosis localizes in posterior/dorsal areas of the lung, so gastralia are
ikely to be affected – further substantiating tuberculosis as the variety of arthritis in this
ividual.
viewer #2: Figure Caption 3B: What is “endosteal lamellar bone”? It should all be labeled as
ellar bone. Lamellar bone= tissue type, endosteal is just the position within the bone cortex,
you would have to also say “periosteal lamellar bone” as well.
thors: Term “endosteal” removed.
viewer #3: 1. The association with TB is not definite, it is an option (albeit logical).
ommend to reduce the tone and speak more about the uncertainties of paleopathology.
thors: The diagnosis of pneumonia is definitive in this specimen. All other supposed diseases
e been considered and discussed in the manuscript. The diagnosis of tuberculosis is inferred
he most likely cause of pneumonia in presented case study. We tried to hit a sweet spot when
omes to the tone, although this is always somewhat subjective (see the comment of the
iewer #2 who asks “Why do you not just say this is the possible oldest incidence of TB?”).
hope that our way of thinking and argumentation is clear enough, so the readers will be able
valuate which aspects are certain and which are inferred.
viewer #3: 2. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of button
eoma (see Eshed et al in AJPA).
thors: Button osteoma are more rounded, not tear-shaped and the histology is that of
versian bone (compare Authors’ response on 3rd reviewer’s concern below). The extended
cussion was implemented into the manuscript text as well as Eshed et al. paper was cited.
thermore, the bone lesions documented that the skull lesions were hamartomas, normal bone
tuberances.
viewer #3: 3. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of Gardner
drome.
thors: The possible identification of familial adenomatous polyposis in prehistoric animal,
ed on osteological material from the Middle Triassic seems be not less spectacular that
rred TB-line infectious disease! According to discussion, more data supports the latter.
dner's syndrome caused by a dominantly inherited mutation in the adenomatous polyposis
tumor suppressor gene has been neither recognized in domestic animals (Meuten, D.J., 2016.
mors in Domestic Animals. John Wiley & Sons) nor any other veterinary literature let alone in
tiles. Furthermore, Gardner syndrome relates multiple typically appearing osteoma and that,
we now state, osteomas have a completely different appearance. They are spherical, and not
flattened teardrop shape observed in our specimen.
viewer #3: 4. Differential diagnosis not complete must discuss the possibility of repeated
ws to the body (see Hershkovitz et al). Boxers commonly show these osteomas.
thors: Could you be more precise? As we suppose that mentioned article is:
rshkovitz I, Bedford L, Jellema LM, Latimer BM. 1996. Injuries to the skeleton due to
longed activity in hand-to-hand combat. International Journal of Osteoarchaeology 6,
-178.
es, it seems that the reviewer misread the article. The damage attributed to the boxer was
mage" to the humeral lesser trochanter and was not the osteoma in the skull. Bob Jurmain's
mary (2013) in the book (Stories from the Skeleton: Behavioral Reconstruction in Human
eology; https://books.google.com/books?isbn=1135851883) clearly states that:
nal example of imaginative inference was recently published by Hershkowitz et al. (1996)
m the Todd Collection of dissecting room specimens these authors identified an individual
o presumably was a boxer, yet no evidence of independent documentation was presented.
s, the reader is left to assume the only. Jurmain claimed lesser trochanter, while
wers (2005) in the International Journal of Osteoarchaeology 15, 1-14 reports that he
age noted was os acromiale, related to the scapula.
pendix C
nk you for looking through and addressing my comments. I feel that you have made many
rovements to the paper, but I still have a few comments and concerns that I would like you to address.
tly, I would like to clear up the misinterpretation about my criticism over sample size and speculation
he discussion. Concerning the small sample size, I completely understand that such small sample sizes
normal for paleopathology studies. I was more concerned about using this single fossil specimen to
e inferences about behavior of marine reptiles and the evolution of a particular disease. I feel that you
e a really interesting pathological condition that you are presenting, which is all that is needed to make
a strong and significant paper. By adding two paragraphs on behavior and the evolution of TB, it
s away from the interesting pathology and makes it seem like you are extrapolating beyond what this
le specimen can tell you. This may not be the case, but presented as a single specimen rather than
tiple incidences in the fossil record, it makes it appear that you are basing all this from what you can
in the one specimen.
er comments-Page number indicates the page given in the upper left hand of the pdf (page x out of
e 26 comment: Concerning my comment about over extrapolating using this single specimen. Again, I
k noting ecotrophism and the evolution of TB is OK, but you dedicate two whole sections to this. You
e found the first clue to these questions, but as such, it is an N of one. I think it would be worth a
ence or two saying that this may indicate ecotrophism and the evolution of TB and that this is
ething you will continue to look into for future reference. I emphasize that again, it may not be your
ntion to state that “because we found this one case of TB in a marine reptile that it must mean TB
lved in the marine environment”, but when you dedicate so much of your paper to these conclusions it
ks like that is exactly what you are doing. I just don’t want it to come across to readers that you are
ing big leaps in interpretations.
e 27 comment: I voiced my concern about not having any references on reptiles with TB and hardly
references on marine mammals with the condition. Instead of adding references, you refute that one
he co-authors has done a lot of work in this area. Could you please add some references on skeletal
ditions as the result of TB in marine organisms and reptiles in the introduction? I see that you did add
w to the discussion.
e with your rebuttal on histology. It would strengthen your interpretations if you gave incidences of
mal histology for this group.
e 27 comment: You did not answer my question about how TB might spread in wild populations or
ated populations, but say “The issue of spread between species, especially marine, documents the
ortance of small interactions.” The examples you give for marine animals are those that gather in
e groups, so I am still curious about isolated individuals as well as in wild individuals, especially
iles. References would help greatly.
e 28 comment: I voiced my concern about your diagnosis of the “blebs” being based on one study on
ans, where out of all the individuals studied, only one showed a morphology similar to the “blebs”
get in the marine reptile. You answered “Findings in over 30 individuals provides a substantial
entiary base.” Does this mean 30 individuals were found to have these “blebs” or that there were 30
viduals in the study, but only one showed the “blebs”. From what I remember when I looked at the
er, it was the latter case, in which case you still only have on incident in humans with this case. Could
please make this clear in the manuscript and, if it is the case that there is only one incident within
ans, put a sentence or two on your thoughts of why this is so rare?
e 28 comment: Could you add the information about the “blebs” that you put in your response, “None
e been found to date and one of the authors (BMR) has examined over 10,000 animals” in the text? It
sses that you have looked at many other taxa other than just humans. Again, references would greatly
.
e 29 comment: For my comment about histology of figure 2 where you respond “It is clearly different
haracter”, I think there is a misunderstanding. I agree that you can see clearly see the “blebs”, and thus
ought when you said periosteal thickening that you were talking about another feature as you mention
“blebs” separate throughout the manuscript. Just make sure that it is clear when describing fig 2.
e 30 comment: Concerning your reply to the wavy LAGs, “…Here, we mean large-scale, bleb-sized
bleb-shaped course of the LAGs, which is located in the same approximate region of the bone as the
icial pathology and correlated with similar increased vascularization inside of the bone – each of these
e waves incorporates numerous vascular canals.” I can see in Fig 2 e and f what you mean by larger
ves” in the LAGs. However, I also see one-two “normal” LAGs between those and the surface
bs”. I also see large “waves” in areas without blebs and normal LAGs underneath “blebs” all the way
ugh the cortex of the bone. Would these “blebs” migrate or get resorbed/redeposited in different areas
he affect element throughout the animals life? If so, please put this in with a reference. If not, could
please put a hypothesis why you do not get a large “wave” LAG = surface “bleb” association all the
e?
o do not see any of the larger “waves” in the histological images. Just the expected “crimped” or
oth look.
w comments:
cerning the line you added in your conclusion (Lines 278-281), why did you add a sentence about
unization in human populations? I can understand that you are trying to show how the fossil record is
licable to modern day, but this seems like a very random and political statement to have added at the
. I agree that immunization is very important, but I see no reason for it to be your last line of your
clusion.
Dear Editor,
Dear Reviewer,
thank you for your helpful comments and suggestions. We modified the manuscript accordingly. The
changes to the text are indicated by the change tracking tool, and you can find our responses to the
comments below.
Furthermore, we would like to suggest minor modification in the title to one of the two proposed
versions:
Respiratory (apparent mycobacterial) infection in 245-million-years-old marine reptile suggested
by bone pathologies
or
Tuberculosis-like respiratory infection in 245-million-years-old marine reptile suggested by bone
pathologies
We think these titles reflect the topic of the paper slightly better, but If you decide so, we will remain
with the previous title.
REVIEWER: Firstly, I would like to clear up the misinterpretation about my criticism over sample size
and speculation in the discussion. Concerning the small sample size, I completely understand that
such small sample sizes are normal for paleopathology studies. I was more concerned about using
this single fossil specimen to make inferences about behavior of marine reptiles and the evolution of
a particular disease. I feel that you have a really interesting pathological condition that you are
presenting, which is all that is needed to make this a strong and significant paper. By adding two
paragraphs on behavior and the evolution of TB, it takes away from the interesting pathology and
makes it seem like you are extrapolating beyond what this single specimen can tell you. This may not
be the case, but presented as a single specimen rather than multiple incidences in the fossil record, it
makes it appear that you are basing all this from what you can see in the one specimen.
Page 26 comment: Concerning my comment about over extrapolating using this single specimen.
Again, I think noting ecotrophism and the evolution of TB is OK, but you dedicate two whole sections
to this. You have found the first clue to these questions, but as such, it is an N of one. I think it would
be worth a sentence or two saying that this may indicate ecotrophism and the evolution of TB and
that this is something you will continue to look into for future reference. I emphasize that again, it
may not be your intention to state that “because we found this one case of TB in a marine reptile
that it must mean TB evolved in the marine environment”, but when you dedicate so much of your
paper to these conclusions it looks like that is exactly what you are doing. I just don’t want it to come
across to readers that you are making big leaps in interpretations.
AUTHORS: Thank you! As suggested, we removed most of the indicated discussion from the text and
only left a three sentence-long mention of possible similarity of nothosaurian and pinnipedian
ecology, hinting at ecotrophism.
TB and hardly any references on marine mammals with the condition. Instead of adding references,
you refute that one of the co-authors has done a lot of work in this area. Could you please add some
references on skeletal conditions as the result of TB in marine organisms and reptiles in the
introduction? I see that you did add a few to the discussion.
AUTHORS: Of course, the references are added, particularly the reviews by Rothschild and Martin
(2006) and Rothschild et al. (2012), which are based on studies of numerous specimens and
numerous literature reports.
REVIEWER: Same with your rebuttal on histology. It would strengthen your interpretations if you
gave incidences of normal histology for this group.
AUTHORS: Unfortunately, the histology of nothosaurian ribs was apparently never described. We
added some references about long bone histology to the text.
REVIEWER: Page 27 comment: You did not answer my question about how TB might spread in wild
populations or isolated populations, but say “The issue of spread between species, especially marine,
documents the importance of small interactions.” The examples you give for marine animals are
those that gather in large groups, so I am still curious about isolated individuals as well as in wild
individuals, especially reptiles. References would help greatly.
AUTHORS: Well, this is an excellent but tricky question. First of all, bone lesions are rare in
tuberculosis – 1-2% of human TB affects bone, so its occurrence identifies its antiquity, but lack of
lesions does not automatically mean lack of tuberculosis. Therefore, isolated cases of bone lesions
does not necessarily mean that the cases of tuberculosis were equally isolated. We give examples of
gregarious animals because we believe it is likely that nothosaurs exhibited such behaviours. One
could cite articles on contemporary spread of human TB, but this is a largely unexplored area for
other (livestock and wildlife) vertebrates.
Based on modern-day epizootic studies of tuberculosis spread in wild animals, the detection of the
disease is difficult because majority of the infected animals show no clinical signs of disease. Several
case studies of M. bovis in wild mammals were described by de Lisle et al. (2002). In most cases the
main routes of transmission was respiratory and oral, rarely by scarification (de Lisle et al., 2002). The
other case of mycobacteriosis was associated with mariculture cage-farmed wild rabbitfishes
(Diamant et al., 2000). The prevalence of mycobacteriosis was increased in close surrounding of the
mariculture, however not noted in more distant parts of coral reef. These case studies showed that in
isolated and wild population of animals the epidemiologic potential of mycobacteriosis is limited to
close outbreaks of the disease. It must be remembered, however, that the data about the
transmission between wild individuals are scarce and there are no really good analogues of
nothosaurians in modern faunas. We introduced to the manuscript a short notion about the studies
in wild animals.
rabbitfish Siganus rivulatus associated with cage farming in the Gulf of Eilat, Red Sea:
Diseases of Aquatic Organisms, v. 39, p. 211–219.
DE LISLE, G.W., BENGIS, R.G., SCHMITT, S.M., and O’BRIEN, D.J. (2002). Tuberculosis in free-ranging
wildlife: detection, diagnosis and management: Revue Scientifique Et Technique
(International Office of Epizootics), v. 21, p. 317–334.
REVIEWER: Page 28 comment: I voiced my concern about your diagnosis of the “blebs” being based
on one study on humans, where out of all the individuals studied, only one showed a morphology
similar to the “blebs” you get in the marine reptile. You answered “Findings in over 30 individuals
provides a substantial evidentiary base.” Does this mean 30 individuals were found to have these
“blebs” or that there were 30 individuals in the study, but only one showed the “blebs”. From what I
remember when I looked at the paper, it was the latter case, in which case you still only have on
incident in humans with this case. Could you please make this clear in the manuscript and, if it is the
case that there is only one incident within humans, put a sentence or two on your thoughts of why
this is so rare?
AUTHORS: The 30 individuals had TB, only one had blebs. As to why so rare, perhaps this was an
immunosuppressed individual? Perhaps it is part of development of the bone lesion, but so
evanescent as to escape notice? As we see it, based on the histology and XMT images of our
specimen, blebs are apparently an effect of focal inflammations at the interface between the
growing bone and the surrounding tissues, possibly related to the transmission of bacterial cells or
their products via the vascular system, and they apparently are not continuously present. When the
inflammation in given foci ceases, the bone resumes its normal growth and the bleb is eventually
overgrown with normal bone tissue. Part of the problem may be that many animals (particularly
mammals) usually lack LAGs and/or exhibit an intensive bone remodelling which obscures the
structure and vascularization pattern in older parts of bones. In such cases, even if blebs were
present at some point in life, they would leave no traces in histological images. We added this to the
manuscript.
REVIEWER: Page 28 comment: Could you add the information about the “blebs” that you put in your
response, “None have been found to date and one of the authors (BMR) has examined over 10,000
animals” in the text? It stresses that you have looked at many other taxa other than just humans.
Again, references would greatly help.
AUTHORS: Of course!
REVIEWER: Page 29 comment: For my comment about histology of figure 2 where you respond “It is
clearly different in character”, I think there is a misunderstanding. I agree that you can see clearly see
the “blebs”, and thus I thought when you said periosteal thickening that you were talking about
another feature as you mention the “blebs” separate throughout the manuscript. Just make sure that
it is clear when describing fig 2.
AUTHORS: Yes, this is corrected.
scale, bleb-sized
and bleb-shaped course of the LAGs, which is located in the same approximate region of the bone as
the surficial pathology and correlated with similar increased vascularization inside of the bone – each
of these large waves incorporates numerous vascular canals.” I can see in Fig 2 e and f what you
mean by larger “waves” in the LAGs. However, I also see one-two “normal” LAGs between those and
the surface “blebs”. I also see large “waves” in areas without blebs and normal LAGs underneath
“blebs” all the way through the cortex of the bone. Would these “blebs” migrate or get
resorbed/redeposited in different areas of the affect element throughout the animals life? If so,
please put this in with a reference. If not, could you please put a hypothesis why you do not get a
large “wave” LAG = surface “bleb” association all the time?
AUTHORS: As mentioned above, we can only hypothesize based on the XMT and histology – it seems
that each bleb developed focally for some time as a result of focal inflammation, later ceased to
develop as the inflammation foci disappeared or moved away, and eventually was overgrown by a
normally looking bone (I think that they were not resorbed, just embedded in newly deposited bone
tissue). The inflammatory foci (and, consecutively, blebs) appeared in different spots on bone
surface. We see no clear evidence of their gradual migration between spots, but each bleb ends with
a LAG (arrested bone apposition), so it is potentially possible that the inflammatory factor did
migrate continuously and we just have no continuous record of that. Alternatively, it is likely that the
inflammation foci were stationary in each cycle of bone growth, appeared and disappeared in various
spots over time. Please note that while it is true that in the mentioned XMT slices the external bleb
and the bleb-like LAG inside of the bone are separated by some normally looking LAGs, the whole
series of XMT slices shows that these “normal” LAGs also developed bleb-like waves elsewhere – in
the same general location (visceral surface of the rib, quite close to each other) but not ideally one
under another (best visible in the supplementary movie S2 presenting all the slices along the whole
scanned element).
REVIEWER: I also do not see any of the larger “waves” in the histological images. Just the expected
“crimped” or
smooth look.
AUTHORS: Yes, they are not visible partly due to scale at which the photographs were taken (only a
section of the visceral region is shown) and partly because this is only a single cross-section. The XMT
images show this clearly.
REVIEWER: New comments:
Concerning the line you added in your conclusion (Lines 278-281), why did you add a sentence about
immunization in human populations? I can understand that you are trying to show how the fossil
record is applicable to modern day, but this seems like a very random and political statement to have
added at the end. I agree that immunization is very important, but I see no reason for it to be your
last line of your conclusion.
AUTHORS: OK, this is removed.
Appendix E
1 Respiratory (apparent mycobacterial)Tuberculosis-like respiratory infection
2 in 245-million-yearsyear-old marine reptile suggested by bone pathologies
3 Dawid Surmik1,2*, Tomasz Szczygielski3, Katarzyna Janiszewska3, Bruce M. Rothschild4,5
4 Affiliations:
1
5 Park of Science & Human Evolution, 1 Maja 10, 46-040 Krasiejów, Poland; 2Faculty of Earth
6 Sciences, University of Silesia, Bedzinska 60, 41-200 Sosnowiec, Poland; 3Institute of
7 Paleobiology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Twarda 51/55, 00-818 Warsaw, Poland; 4Carnegie
8 Museum, 4400 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213 USA; 5West Virginia University
9 School of Medicine, Morgantown, West Virginia, 26506 USA.
10 *dawid@surmik.pl
11
12 Abstract
13 Except for the historical written sources, there are neither olderAn absence of archaeological
14 norand palaeontological proofs forevidence of pneumonia in the remote past, contrasts with its
15 recognition in contrast to the more recent archaeologic record. We document an apparent
16 infection-mediated periosteal reaction affecting the dorsal ribs in a Middle Triassic
17 eosauropterygian specimen historically referred to as ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus. We
18 conducted highHigh-resolution X-ray microcomputed tomographymicrotomography (XMT) and
19 histological studies of the pathologically -altered ribs, which revealed the presence of a
20 continuous solid periosteal reaction. The infectious process related to pneumonia resulted in a
21 unique form of new bone formation manifested by periosteal reaction with multiple superficial
22 blebs (protrusions) on the visceral surfaces of several dorsal ribs. Rib histology and XMT
23 revealed increasedIncreased vascularization in the pathological region and bleb-like layout ofand
24 elevated lines of arrested growth withindocument that the pathology was the bone, which
25 indicates result of a multi-seasonal disease. While thevisceral surface localization of this
26 periosteal reaction represents the earliest identified evidence for pneumonia, the noted blebs may
27 have an additional implication, as: they have apparently only been previously recognized as a
28 correlate ofin humans with tuberculosis in humans. Congruent. Parsimonious with this diagnosis
29 are is the presence of focal erosions within at least one vertebral centrum, which may be
30 compared to human vertebralerosions, another manifestation of tuberculosis. in humans.
31 1. Introduction
32 Pathological conditions sporadically observed in fossil skeletal remains provide an exceptional
33 opportunity for epidemiologic studies in prehistoric animals. The recognition of study of disease.
34 Recognition of pathogens along the history of life allows permits investigation of how various
35 diseasesdisease affected ancient biota [1–2]. Therefore,The fossil record, although very selective Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
36 and incomplete, sometimes may fill the allows resolution of gaps in our understanding of thetheir
37 evolution and transmission of pathogenic taxa.
38 Abnormalities and pathologies of the osseous system are Osseous abnormality/pathology is
39 relatively common in reptiles [3–4] and their recognition in the fossil record is increasingly Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
40 improving.]. Most of the conditions described thus far in the fossil record were have been
41 identified mostly in terrestrial or semi-terrestrial taxa, and they are represented by. They include
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
42 post-traumatic malformationsmalformation [5–6], congenital defects [7–8], orand neoplasms
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
43 [3,9–11]. The occurrence of pathologies on the skeletal remainsPrevious reports of Mesozoic
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
44 marine reptiles is mostlyreptile pathology haves been limited to recognition of bone necrosis, of
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
45 both aseptic [12] and septicinfectious [13] in nature aetiology. Aseptic avascular necrosis Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
46 associated with the decompression syndrome is quite common and relatively well-recognized in Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
47 in ancient marine reptiles, including sea turtles [14,15], mosasaurs [16], ichthyosaurs [12], and Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
48 sauropterygians [12,17]. The fossil record of contagious diseasesinfectious disease in marine Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
49 reptiles is very scarce. Bacterial, limited to bacterial infections were noted in Triassic Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
50 sauropterygians [13] and Cretaceous mosasaurs [18,19]. Fossilization of germsactual Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
51 microorganisms is exceptionally rare, (e.g. Yersinia strains have been found in Eocene flea) Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
52 [20], but document the antiquity (in the evolutionary sense) of infectious diseases.]. Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
53 Pneumonia is a multi-causal inflammatory condition of lungs, affecting approximately, the result Brytania)
54 of infection of lung parenchyma, affects 450 million people each year, and sometimes referred to
55 asyearly [21]. It is one of the oldest diseases known to humankind [21]. It was , described for the
56 first time by an ancient Greek physician, Hippocrates [21]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
57 Among the causes oforganisms responsible for bacterial pneumonia it should be mentioned one
58 of the most common is the trans-phylogenic zoonoses –zoonosis tuberculosis, (TB), caused by
59 Mycobacterium tuberculosis. and related organisms. This contagious disease is well-known as Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
60 well has been previously documented in reptiles [2–3,22–24] and marine tetrapods [22,25–27]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
61 TB], It is also quite commoncommonly recognized in the archaeological record [2,28–32] and Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
62 also documented also (by macroscopic, DNA, and lipid studies) in Pleistocene bovids [33–35]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
63 Unequivocal diagnosisDiagnosis of tuberculosis including , on the basis of osteological data, as Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
64 well as M. tuberculosis lipid biomarkers and DNA sequences were presentedsequence detection, Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
65 was established by Hershkovitz et al. [36] fromin Neolithic human bones and by Rothschild et al. Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
66 [33] and Lee et al. [37–38] in Pleistocene bison. Vertebral collapse and coalescence, classic Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
67 complications of tuberculosis [2,39], arewere also documented in a Pliocene macropod Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
68 (marsupial) [2]. Molecular data suggests that M. tuberculosis diverged from its common ancestor Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
69 as recently as 17 000 years ago [33,38], thereforebut that perspective is difficult to reconcile with Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
70 actual recognition of the disease in 17,000 and 75,000-100,000 ypb bison [33]. Thus the
71 antiquity of tuberculosis ishas not been established.
72 Herein, we demonstrate the oldest pathological condition inferred to bereport a tuberculosis-like
73 respiratory infection, preserved in a Triassic (approx. 240245 million years oldybp) marine
74 reptile. AThe presumptive diagnosis is established based on the basis of macroscopic,
75 radiological and histological studiesstudy of severalits rib and vertebrae lesionspathology.
76 2. Methods
77 2.1. Thin-sectioning
78 The proximal partportion of the one rib fragment was thin-sectioned and examined using a Nikon
79 Eclipse 80i transmitted light microscope fitted with a DS-5Mc cooled camera head. The distal
80 part of the same specimen, ca. 0.5 cm long, was subjected to XMTX-ray microtomography
81 (XMT) scanning.
82 2.2. X-ray microcomputed tomographymicrotomography (XMT)
83 The data were collectedRadiologic evaluation was performed with a XRadia MicroXCT-200
84 imaging system, equipped with a 90 kV/8 W tungsten Xx-ray source. The scans were performed
85 using the following parameters: voltage: 50 kV; power: 6 W; exposure time: 4 seconds; voxel
86 size: 4.61 µm. Radial projectionsImages were reconstructed with the XMReconstructor software
87 provided with the Xradia system. The 3D images of bone and XMT sections were obtained with
88 Avizo 7.0 Fire Edition software processing.
89 3. Results
90 Pneumonia-related bone involvement was recognized on the visceral surface of dorsal ribs of a
91 Middle Triassic marine reptile, ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus Volz [40],the holotype MG UWr.
92 4438s 4438 (figure 1a,c, electronic supplementary material figure S1) and described in detail
93 herein.of the Middle Triassic marine reptile, ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus Volz [40]. We agree
94 with some previous authors [41–43] in interpretation of], who interpreted the stated genus Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
95 'Proneusticosaurus' as actually representing the postcranial remains of another taxon,
96 Cymatosaurus,. The latter, however, is known thus far only from cranial material.
97 An extended Complete description of the specimen and the observed, associated vertebral
98 modifications which might be consistent with a ‘Pott’s disease-like’ (vertebral destruction with
99 ventral collapse and fusion) manifestation, as well as of vertebral centra (typical of tuberculosis-
100 related Pott’s disease in humans) and additional illustrations of rib pathology are included in
101 electronic supplementary material.
102 Multiple areas of surface elevation of boneBone reaction (figure 1b) areis present on the visceral
103 surfacessurface of at least four consecutive dorsal ribs on the left side of the animal (figure 1b).
104 The lesions are elliptical in shape, ranging in size from 0.5 to 3 mm and appear contiguous with,
105 rather than applied to the bone surface. With one focal exception, they have relatively smooth
106 surfaces and an unbroken outline. Serpentine bifurcating grooves (figure 1d) are present on the
107 surface of the rugose one. The grooves most likely are an imprint of overlying blood vessels,
108 rather than a result of irregular bone deposition – very similar but weaker fingerprint-like texture
109 is also present on non-pathological regions of the ribs and was previously reported on the
110 vertebrae and appendicular skeleton of other sauropterygians, such as pachypleurosaurids [44].
111 X-ray microcomputed tomography, and appear contiguous with, rather than applied to the bone
112 surface. X-ray microtomography revealed bleb-shaped thickening of the periosteal lining of the
113 bone, interrupted internally by multiple branching channels ca. 50 µm in diameter (figure 2).
114 The blebs have relatively smooth surfaces and an unbroken outline, although one does have
115 serpentine bifurcating grooves on its surface (figure 1d). The grooves most likely represent the
116 imprint of overlying blood vessels, rather than the result of irregular bone deposition. Very
117 similar, but weaker fingerprint-like texture is also present on non-pathological ribs, as previously
118 reported in other sauropterygians (e.g., pachypleurosaurids) [44].
119 Histological documentation of the penetrating branching channels reveals the infectious nature of
120 the pathologic process. The channels appear limited to the internal aspect of the inflated outer
121 cortex. Underlying bone was otherwise unaffected, except for the increased local vascular
122 supply. The ribs are composed of a lamellar-zonal bone tissue. Bone, with very minimal
123 remodelling. Zonation is nearly absent. In the histological section (figure 3), zonation is
124 densestof greatest density and best visualized dorsally (figure 3a,b), where growth cycles consist
125 primarily of parallel-fibered bone, grading into lamellar bone and culminating in lines of arrested
126 growth (LAGs). The tracesOrganization of collagen fibres in some places are organized fibre
127 traces in a wavy manner (figure 3c), marking the) mark external migration of blood vessels
128 during the bone growth. In several instances,Some of the LAG waves in LAGs may easily be
129 interpreted asappear to represent remnants of the surficialsuperficial vascular grooves whichthat
130 were eventuallysubsequently incorporated into the bone.
131 This interpretation is supported by the XMT, which shows the revelation of blood vessels
132 crossing the LAGs in canal-like waves, and continuing along the length of the rib. The
133 vascularizationVascularization is dominantlypredominantly longitudinal (compare in distribution
134 (see electronic supplementary material movie S1). Towards Bone deposition is increased and
135 less organized on the visceral (ventral) sideaspect of the rib, the amount of bone deposition
136 increases and the tissue loses its ordered organization (figure 3f,g). The radial orientation of the
137 vascularization becomes), where vessels are more pronouncedradially-oriented (figure 3d,e,f,g).
138 The outer zone of the bone in the ventral, ventro-caudal and ventro-cranial regions bone is
139 sharply separateddemarcated. Its base is dark in transmitted light and milky in polarized light,
140 but. However, this may be an artefact caused by an uneven thickness of the section. The topIts
141 external section exhibits stratified structurestratification in transmitted light, which is
142 inconspicuous on polarization. Radial, diverging canals openextend to the surface. Interestingly,
143 the olderOlder LAGs reveal the presence ofcontain several well-vascularized, bleb-like
144 protrusions of comparable sizes (much larger than typical, vascular canal-scale LAG waving)
145 and positionslocation to those present on the surface, which. These were subsequently covered
146 by younger zones of less-vascularized bone (figure 2, electronic supplementary material movie
147 S2). This suggests a chronic disease, with symptoms spanning several seasons.
148 4. Discussion
149 4. 1. Differential diagnosis.
150 The observed blebs are typical of those occasionally seen in humans with Mycobacterium
151 tuberculosis-derived tuberculosis [45–46]. XMT examination documents the blebs as solid Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
152 (branching channels-excepted), ruling out taphonomic blister formation and that related to
153 vitamin C deficiency (scurvy), wherein the).The periosteum is separated from the underlying
154 cortical bone in scurvy [2,47]. Taphonomic explanationsPotential taphonomic explanation of Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
155 branching channels areis essentially limited to fungal disease, a consideration excluded because Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
156 of size discrepancy (theThe diameter of fungal hyphae is five times larger) [48]. Branching Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
157 channels of a size similar to that of the vascular rib channels are, however rarely noted with the
158 branching bacterium Actinomyces [2]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
159 There is no bone deformation, indicative of a healed fracture and localization. Localization of the
160 pathology to the internal (visceral) rib surface rules out a traumatic explanation. While
161 developmental, dysplastic (e.g., fibrous dysplasia) and metabolic disorders (e.g., renal
162 osteodystrophy) can involve ribs, their effect is limited to the internal bone structure itself, with.
163 The periosteum unaffected –is not altered, in the absence of subjacent bone involvement [2,39]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
164 One exception is melorheostosis, a phenomenon, in which “drip-patterns” of periosteal reaction
165 may occur without apparent underlying bone involvement [39]. However, that is Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
166 macroscopically recognized by continuous dispersal down long bones, quite different from the
167 focal spots (blebs) observed in MG UWr. 4438s. Pathology in the latter is clearly distinguishable
168 from that of hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, in which periosteal reaction universally is present on
169 the distal diaphysisdiaphyses of long bones e.g., tibia, radiusthe appendicular skeleton [49]. Long Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
170 bonesThese were apparently unaffected in MG UWr. 4438s. Rib involvement by cancer is
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
171 typically related to metastatic disease directly invading the bone [2,39,50]. No such evidence was Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
172 found in MG UWr. 4438s. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
173 Primary bone tumours (e.g., osteoid osteoma) only secondarily affect the periosteum, and are Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
174 recognized because of internal bone structure modification [39]. Gardner's syndrome, caused by Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
175 a dominantly -inherited mutation in the adenomatous polyposis coli tumortumour suppressor Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
176 gene, may give a superficially similar osteological morphology, but it has been neither Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
177 recognized [51]. Additionally, bone involvement in domestic animals [51] nor any other Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
178 veterinary literature let alone in reptiles. Furthermore, Gardner syndrome relates multiple Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
179 typically appearing is in the form of osteomas and osteomas have a completely different Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
180 appearance.. They are spherical protuberances, and do not have the flattened teardrop shape Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
181 observed in our specimen. This is also true for button osteomas – more, which are also rounded, Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
182 not tear-shaped, and their histology is that. Further, such osteomas consist of Haversian bone Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
183 [52].], not the lamellar bone noted in MG UWr. 4438s. Other conditions that causescan produce Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
184 periosteal proliferation are associated with lyticosteolytic or blasticosteoblastic internal bone Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
185 reaction, absent in MG UWr. 4438s. Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
186 4.2. Rationale for suggesting tuberculosis as an inferred diagnosis for MG UWr. 4438s. Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
187 The presented multi-proxymultidisciplinary approach revealsutilized in the current analysis Brytania)
188 revealed a chronic, multi-seasonal disease affecting bone tissue. The locationPresence of bone
189 reaction and protrusions on , localized to the visceral surface of several neighbouring the para-
190 vertebral area of ribs at the posterior section of the thorax in close contact with the lungs, suggest
191 a tuberculosis-type pulmonary infection, the oldest known such observation to date.
192 Tuberculosis is generically well-represented as a trans-phylogenetic disorder, but with a variety
193 of. All previously identified causative organisms. All are have been members of the genus
194 Mycobacterium genus, but infection by various component , with species does have -dependent
195 (phylogenetic limitations) host specificity [23]. Forms of non-Most infections in human are Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
196 caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Other mycobacterial infectioninfections (e.g., that
197 caused by M. kansasii, M. avium-intracellularis and M. thamnopheos) have been recognized in
198 extant animals, reptiles included [22–24]. Representatives of the genus Mycobacterium exhibit Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
199 high tolerance to increased water salinity [53] and]. The genus is therefore believed to Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
200 emergehave emerged in remote past as a primarily saprophytic and, non-pathogenic [54] Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
201 bacterium. It apparently acquired its virulence later,(pathogenicity) during its long-term
202 interactions with poikilothermic, and thensubsequently with homoeothermic animals. This point
203 of view is supported by a , given its wide taxonomic occurrence of mycobacteriosis in the animal
204 kingdom and a number of distinct strains causing infections in various taxadistribution [22,25]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
205 Pulmonary tuberculosis causes granulomatous lesions affecting lung tissue. The bleb-like
206 periosteal bone appositions were apposition recognized in MG UWr. 4438s has been previously
207 reported as associated in humans with tuberculosis in humans [45–46], however]. However bone Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
208 lesions are rare (about pathology is uncommon in humans (found in 1-2% of human TB affects
209 bone). Out ofindividuals with pulmonary disease) and blebs, even rarer. No other individual
210 among the 10,000 animals examined to date by one of us (B.M.R.) no other individualhas been
211 found to exhibitwith such blebs (see also [2–4]). It is difficult to evaluateunclear why their Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
212 occurrence is so infrequent and the exact factor inducingthey have been so infrequently
213 recognized. The mechanism of this particular morphology remains unknown. It is possible that
214 they appear in the bones of They may represent an unusual bone response in an
215 immunosuppressed individualsindividual or they are a part of development of the bone lesion,
216 but even an aspect of disease pathophysiology (developmental course) that is so evanescent, as to
217 escape notice. It is apparent from the XMT scans of MG UWr. 4438s that the blebs were not
218 present continuously, but rather appeared in various spots on the visceral rib surfacedeveloped
219 during each cyclecycles of bone apposition. They were initially bordered by consecutive LAGs
220 and were eventually overgrownoverlaid by newly deposited bone tissue during the next cycle,
221 during which new blebs formed in neighbouring areas (supplementary materialsupplement S2
222 movie S2). It may be hypothesised that they developed as a). This apparently was the response to
223 focal inflammationslocal inflammation at the interface between the bone and surrounding tissues,
224 possibly related to the transmission of irritation by bacterial cells or their products via the
225 vascular system.. There is no clear evidence of gradual migration between spots, but. However,
226 each bleb ends with a LAG, so it is potentially possible that the . The bleb-inducing factor did
227 migrate continuouslymay have migrated, but no continuous record of thatsuch movement is
228 preserved in the bone tissue, due to cyclical arrest of bone apposition. Alternatively, the
229 inflammation foci might have been stationary, appearing and disappearing in various
230 spotslocations during each cycle of bone growth. The dependenceDependence on some inducing
231 factor, and the ability to resume normal bone growth in the area previously occupied by a bleb
232 makes it possible, allows consideration of the possibility that the blebs may be present only
233 temporarily through the disease duration and leave course, leaving no external traces afterwards.
234 In animals (including many mammals) lacking or rarely developing LAGs (including many
235 mammals) or those with intensive bone remodelling, the past presence of the blebs may
236 furthermore be undetectable histologically.bleb “history” may not be assessable. Nonetheless,
237 the determination of the occurrence and prevalence of blebs in the general zoological or
238 anthropological record is beyond the scope of this study and will be continued to look into for
239 future referencemonitored in a prospective manner.
240 The human cases are best documented, leaving largely unexplored area for other tetrapods.
241 It should be noted that typicalTypical tuberculosis-related modifications of vertebraevertebral
242 modification, referred to as Pott’s disease [55] seems to be present in MG UWr. 4438s in the Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
243 vertebral centra embedded within the slab (see electronic supplementary material). Although the
244 specimen described herein is much too old to allow utility ofpermit molecular methods-based
245 (e.g., DNA) analysis, previous studies indicatedocument that morphological clues may be used
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
246 with successsuccessfully utilized to diagnose tuberculosis in ancient remainsa trans-phylogenetic Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
247 manner and through geologic time [35]. The manifestations of mycobacteriosisMycobacteriosis Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
248 is common in modern reptiles [22], and even more so in fish [56,57] and aquatic tetrapods [25– Brytania)
Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
249 27] due], related to, e.g., facile transmission of Mycobacteria spp. in aquatic medium [22]. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
250 Taking into account the above, we suppose that virulence inVirulence of an ancient member of
251 the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex or of some other closely-related fossil epizootic
252 bacterial taxon was presentdeveloped much earlier than previously thoughtconsidered.
253 Furthermore, manyMany pathogens may transfer horizontally across species, regardless of their Sformatowano: Domyslna czcionka
akapitu, Czcionka: 10 pkt, Angielski
(Stany Zjednoczone)
254 evolutionary history and relationships of those taxa. Numerous pathogenic taxa acquiring the
255 ability during their evolution acquire the ability to colonize new groups of hosts or vectors.
256 Higher-order pathogenic taxa, on the other hand, frequently behaveNew hosts are sometimes
257 acquired, independent of their evolutionary history and phylogenetic relationships. They
258 originate as opportunists, infecting any taxa possible, and only later specializing to infection or
259 infestation of specific hosts. Those The susceptibility of those animals, whether pathologically -
260 affected or simply serving as vectors for transmission to disease-susceptible animals are defined,
261 is determined by initial (from an evolutionary perspective)): 1. deficits of immunity against the
262 given pathogen, their; 2. physiological nuances, (e.g., basal resting temperature); 3. ecologically-
263 driven exposition,; or 4. newly acquired pathogen virulence [58,59]. This is illustrated by the Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
264 distribution of modern pathogens, which is often spotty when it comes to taxa within family,
265 orderfamilies, orders, or classclasses, but at the same time may involve more than one class.
266 Therefore, the presence of infectious diseases in extant taxa does not necessarily indicate their
267 presence inthat their ancestors were similarly afflicted.
268 4.3. The impact of infection on the life of ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus.
269 As it is unknownGiven uncertainty as to whether the early sauropterygians lived in herds or
270 exhibited any other gregarious behavioursbehaviour, it is difficult to evaluatepostulate the full
271 epidemiologic potential of tuberculosis. As their
272 Modern-day epizootic studies of spread of mycobacteriosis in free-ranging animals have been
273 reported for fish [60,61], birds [62], and mammals [63], but data regarding reptiles is scarce.
274 Lack of good sauropterygian analogues in modern ecosystems further compromises further
275 phylogenetic analysis at this time. However, another analytic pathway derives from
276 consideration of ecotrophism. As the semi-aquatic lifestyle nothosaurs is often compared to that
277 of modern day seals, it may be hypothesized that the character of disease transmission might
278 have been comparable as well.. Ecotrophism, an often overlooked aspect of organismal
279 behaviour and spread of infectious disease, should be considered. Pinnipeds appear to be the
280 marine mammal group most susceptible to tuberculosis among[64]. Analogously, the marine
281 mammals [60]. This forms first case of a possible ecological parallel – the more interesting that
282 the ecotrophism has been an often overlooked aspect of evolution and of spread of infectious
283 disease. tuberculosis-like disease is similarly found in a resident of a marine habitat.
284 Modern-day epizootic studies of mycobacteriosis spread in wild animals were performed for
285 fishes [61,62], birds [63], and mammals [64], but the data, especially regarding reptiles, are
286 scarce. The matter is complicated by the lack of good nothosaurian analogues in modern
287 ecosystems.
288 Although the histologyContrasted with extensive study of nothosaurid long bones was
289 extensively studied [65–68], their rib histology was never described.has received less attention Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
290 [65]. Histological section of the rib of MG UWr. 4438s rib reveals dense, very compact bone
291 with a small medullarmedullary area (figure 3a,b). Such conditions seem to be consistent with
292 that observed in the earliest (Early Anisian) representatives of Nothosaurus spp. from the early
293 Anisian,., characterized by increased bone mass. The latter is an adaptation, facilitating diving
294 behaviour in these animals [65]. The ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus holotype is also Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
295 characterized by relatively broad gastralia and unusually broad proximal parts of the ribs (e.g.,
296 electronic supplementary material figure 2) – a case of pachyostosis), classified as pachyostotic
297 [69]. Such adaptations are known in the secondarily aquatic tetrapods inhabiting shallow waters, Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
298 which need an. They provide extra body mass, to compensate the positive buoyancy caused by
299 atmospheric air accumulated in the lungs [70]. In contrast toContrasted with the physiology of Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
300 open marine animals that are able to accumulate oxygen in the body tissues [71], the lungs in Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
301 these primitive secondarily aquatic tetrapods, are the main oxygen reservoir [71]. As pulmonary Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
302 tuberculosis reducereduces respiratory function [72], breathing capacity was likely compromised Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
303 in specimen MG UWr. 4438s. This might have potentially constrained diving
304 behavioursbehaviour related to feeding or escape from predators. Decompression syndrome-
305 related avascular necrosis, however, is relatively rare in nothosaurids [12,73]. As they might not Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
306 perform prolonged dives, limitedLimited lung capacity might not have been as detrimental for
307 that animal. The nothosaurids, if they were not routinely deep divers. While the part of the slab
308 with the complete hand of MG specimen UWr. 4438s is now missing, but the documentation
309 provided by Volz [40] revealed neither hyperphalangy nor polydactyly. It had a typical, Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
310 nothosaurian autopodium structure, indicative of semiaquatic adaptation. In any case, the
311 described specimen, as evidenced by rib histology, managed to survive
312 It is clear that MG UWr. 4438s survived several seasons of disease, before it perished. It cannot
313 be determined whether the death resulted from repeat failuresof MG UWr. 4438s was an
314 independent phenomenon or the result of compromise of hunting efforts due to limited mobility
315 or related to diminished lung capacity or the result of tuberculosis-related failure of internal
316 organs.
317 5. Conclusion
318 The case presented here is the oldest record of pneumonia and possibly pushes the earliest record
319 of mycobacteriosis back to the earlyEarly Mesozoic, the dawn of the age of reptiles. Although it
320 must be kept in mind that the palaeopathological studies described herein are restricted in terms
321 of available material and no typical microbiological or biochemical clues may be usedare
322 accessible at this time, our diagnosis is supported by several lines of evidence – external and
323 internal morphology of the blebs on the ribs, their distribution in the pulmonary region of the rib
324 cage, and presence of internal destructionsdestruction of dorsal vertebraevertebral damage
325 comparable to that observed in Pott’s disease. This is the first evidence of these in fossil reptiles
326 and in such a distant past. The presence of probable tuberculosis-related changes on a skeleton of
327 an extinct reptile living before the ascent of mammals supports the view of an ancient origin of
328 mycobacterioses and their long-lasting influence on various vertebrate taxa. It also highlights the
329 possible impact of ecotrophism on the evolution and spread of contagious diseases. Therefore,
330 this case study is significant for palaeontologists, evolutionary biologists and people generally
331 interested in life science, because the pathogens and diseases comprise one of the important, but
332 understudied selection factors for species survival. Every documentation substantially improves
333 our state of knowledge about the history of pathogenic taxa. Such study also has implications for
334 global epidemiologic studies, supplementing our understanding of the evolution of trans-
335 phylogenetic pathogens and their dispersal in timespans unattainable in contemporary studies.
336 Data accessibility. We declare that all data are included in the manuscript and electronic
337 supplementary material.
338 Authors’ contributions. D.S. conceived and coordinated the project. T.S. described the Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
339 histological sections. K.J. performed XMT scans of the specimen. D.S. and T.S. prepared the
340 figures. D.S., B.R.M. and T.S. interpreted the dataset, composed and reviewed the manuscript.
341 All authors discussed the results and contributed to the manuscript.
342 Competing interests. We have no competing interests.
343 Funding. This research project is supported by the National Science Center, Poland
344 (www.ncn.gov.pl), grant no. 2011/01/N/ST10/06989.
345 Acknowledgments. We would like to thank Dr. Pawel Raczynski (Institute of Geological
346 Sciences, University of Wroclaw) for lending MG UWr. 4438s, Prof. Jaroslaw Stolarski
347 (Institute of Paleobiology, Polish Academy of Sciences) for access to the opticoptical equipment,
348 Adam Zaremba (IP, PAS) for preparation of thin sections of the rib, and Marian Dziewinski (IP,
349 PAS) for detailed photographs of the extracted rib fragment. We also thank three anonymous
350 reviewers and Dr. Michael Doube, the associate editor, whose comments have contributed to
351 improving our paper. This work was partially performed in the NanoFun laboratories co-
352 financed by the European Regional Development Fund within the Innovation Economy
353 Operational Programme POIG.02.02.00-00-025/09.
354 References
355 1. Rothschild BM. 2016 Odyssey in the evolution of a paleopathologist. Foss. Rec. 20, 37–45. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
356 (doi:10.5194/fr-20-37-2016) Brytania)
357 2. Rothschild BM, Martin LD. 2006 Skeletal impact of disease. Albuquerque: New Mexico
358 Museum of Natural History.
359 3. Rothschild BM, Schultze H-P, Pellegrini R. 2012 Herpetological osteopathology. Annotated
360 bibliography of amphibians and reptiles. New York, Dordrecht, Heidelberg & London:
361 Springer Science+Business Media.
362 4. Rothschild BM, Schultze H-P, Pellegrini R. 2013 Osseous and other hard tissue pathologies
363 in turtles and abnormalities of mineral deposition. In Morphology and Evolution of Turtles
364 (eds. DB Brinkman, PA Holroyd, JD Gardner), pp. 501–534. Dordrecht: Springer
365 Science+Business Media.
366 5. Hedrick BP et al. 2016 An Injured Psittacosaurus (Dinosauria: Ceratopsia) From the Yixian
367 Formation (Liaoning, China): Implications for Psittacosaurus Biology. Anat. Rec. Hoboken
368 NJ 2007 299, 897–906. (doi:10.1002/ar.23363)
369 6. Anné J, Garwood RJ, Lowe T, Withers PJ, Manning PL. 2015 Interpreting pathologies in
370 extant and extinct archosaurs using micro-CT. PeerJ 3, e1130. (doi:10.7717/peerj.1130)
371 7. Szczygielski T, Surmik D, Kapuscinska A, Rothschild BM. 2017 The oldest record of
372 aquatic amniote congenital scoliosis. PLOS ONE 12, e0185338.
373 (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0185338)
374 8. Witzmann F, Rothschild BM, Hampe O, Sobral G, Gubin YM, Asbach P. 2014 Congenital
375 Malformations of the Vertebral Column in Ancient Amphibians. Anat. Histol. Embryol. 43,
376 90–102. (doi:10.1111/ahe.12050)
377 9. Rothschild BM, Witzke BJ, Hershkovitz I. 1999 Metastatic cancer in the Jurassic. The
378 Lancet 354, 398. (doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(99)01019-3)
379 10. Barbosa FH de S, Pereira PVLG da C, Bergqvist LP, Rothschild BM. 2016 Multiple
380 neoplasms in a single sauropod dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Brazil. Cretac. Res.
381 62, 13–17. (doi:10.1016/j.cretres.2016.01.010)
382 11. Dumbrava MD, Rothschild BM, Weishampel DB, Csiki-sava Z, Andrei RA, Acheson KA,
383 Codrea VA. 2016 A dinosaurian facial deformity and the first occurrence of ameloblastoma
384 in the fossil record. Nat. Publ. Group , 1–7. (doi:10.1038/srep29271)
385 12. Rothschild BM, Xiaoting Z, Martin LD. 2012 Adaptations for marine habitat and the effect
386 of Triassic and Jurassic predator pressure on development of decompression syndrome in
387 ichthyosaurs. Naturwissenschaften 99, 443–448. (doi:10.1007/s00114-012-0918-0)
388 13. Surmik D, Rothschild BM, Dulski M, Janiszewska K. 2017 Two types of bone necrosis in
389 the Middle Triassic Pistosaurus longaevus bones: the results of integrated studies. R. Soc.
390 Open Sci. 4, 170204. (doi:10.1098/rsos.170204)
391 14. Rothschild BM. 1987 Decompression syndrome in fossil marine turtles. Ann. Carnegie Mus.
392 56, 253–358.
393 15. Rothschild BM, Naples V. 2013 Decompression syndrome and diving behavior in
394 Odontochelys, the first turtle. Acta Palaeontol. Pol. (doi:10.4202/app.2012.0113)
395 16. Rothschild BM, Martin LD. In press. Avascular necrosis: Occurrence in diving Cretaceous
396 mosasaurs. Science 236, 75–77. (doi:doi:10.1126/science.236.4797.75)
397 17. Rothschild BM, Storrs GW. 2003 Decompression syndrome in plesiosaurs (Sauropterygia:
398 Reptilia). J. Vertebr. Paleontol. 23, 324–328. (doi:10.1671/0272-
399 4634(2003)023[0324:DSIPSR]2.0.CO;2)
400 18. Lingham-Soliar T. 2004 Palaeopathology and injury in the extinct mosasaurs
401 (Lepidosauromorpha, Squamata) and implications for modern reptiles. Lethaia 37, 255–262.
402 (doi:10.1080/00241160410006519)
403 19. Schulp AS, Walenkamp GH, Hofman PA, Stuip Y, Rothschild BM. 2006 Chronic bone
404 infection in the jaw of Mosasaurus hoffmanni (Squamata). Oryctos 6, 41–52.
405 20. Poinar Jr. GO. 2015 Chapter two – The geological record of parasitic nematode evolution. In
406 Advances in Parasitology, pp. 53–92. Academic Press.
407 21. Thomas PK. 2012 Investigations for pneumonia. J. Assoc. Physicians India 60, 13–16.
408 22. Mitchell MA. 2012 Mycobacterial infections in reptiles. Veterinary Clin. North Am. Exot.
409 Anim. Pract. 15, 101–111. (doi:10.1016/j.cvex.2011.10.002)
410 23. Montali RJ, Friends of the National Zoo. 1978 Mycobacterial infections of zoo animals:
411 proceedings of a symposium held at the Conservation and Research Center, National
412 Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, October 6-8, 1976. Smithsonian Institution Press.
413 24. Cowan DF. 1968 Diseases of captive reptiles. J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 153, 848–859.
414 25. Waltzek TB, Cortés-Hinojosa G, Wellehan Jr. JFX, Gray GC. 2012 Marine mammal
415 zoonoses: A review of disease manifestations. Zoonoses Public Health 59, 521–535.
416 (doi:10.1111/j.1863-2378.2012.01492.x)
417 26. Brock J. A., Nakamura R. M., Miyahara A. Y., Chang E. M. L. 2011 Tuberculosis in Pacific
418 Green Sea Turtles, Chelonia mydas. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 105, 564–566. (doi:10.1577/1548-
419 8659(1976)105<564:TIPGST>2.0.CO;2)
420 27. de Amorim DB et al. 2014 Mycobacterium pinnipedii in a stranded South American sea lion
421 (Otaria byronia) in Brazil. J. Wildl. Dis. 50, 419–422. (doi:10.7589/2013-05-124)
422 28. Arriaza BT, Salo W, Aufderheide AC, Holcomb TA. 1995 Pre-Columbian tuberculosis in
423 northern Chile: Molecular and skeletal evidence. Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 98, 37–45.
424 29. Hershkovitz I et al. 2015 Tuberculosis origin: The Neolithic scenario. Tuberculosis 95,
425 S122–S126. (doi:10.1016/j.tube.2015.02.021)
426 30. Sager P, Schalimtzer M, Moller-Christensen V. 1972 A case of spondylitis tuberculosa in the
427 Danish Neolithic Age. Dan. Med. Bull. 19, 176–180.
428 31. Zink AR, Grabner W, Reischl U, Wolf H, Nerlich AG. 2003 Molecular study on human
429 tuberculosis in three geographically distinct and time delineated populations from ancient
430 Egypt. Epidemiol. Infect. 130, 239–249. (doi:10.1017/S0950268802008257)
431 32. Zimmerman MR. 1979 Pulmonary and osseous tuberculosis in an Egyptian mummy. Bull. N.
432 Y. Acad. Med. 55, 604.
433 33. Rothschild BM, Martin LD, Lev G, Bercovier H, Bar-Gal GK, Greenblatt C, Donoghue H,
434 Spigelman M, Brittain D. 2001 Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex DNA from an extinct
435 bison dated 17,000 years before the present. Clin. Infect. Dis. 33, 305–311.
436 34. Rothschild BM. 2003 Pathology in Hiscock Site vertebrates and its bearing on hyperdisease
437 among North American mastodons. Hiscock Site Late Pleistocene Holocene Paleoecol.
438 Archaeol. West. N. Y. State RS Laub Ed Lawrence Kans. , 171–175.
439 35. Rothschild BM. 2005 Series, experience, limited experience and semantics of proboscidean
440 forefoot and hindfoot erosions: Distinguishing mycobacterial infection and
441 spondyloarthropathy. J. Vertebr. Paleontol. 25, 106A–107A.
442 36. Hershkovitz I et al. 2008 Detection and molecular characterization of 9000-year-old
443 Mycobacterium tuberculosis from a Neolithic settlement in the Eastern Mediterranean. PLoS
444 ONE 3, e3426. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0003426)
445 37. Lee OY-C et al. 2012 Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex lipid virulence factors preserved
446 in the 17,000-year-old skeleton of an extinct bison, Bison antiquus. PLoS ONE 7, e41923.
447 (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0041923)
448 38. Lee OY-C, Wu HHT, Besra GS, Rothschild BM, Spigelman M, Hershkovitz I, Bar-Gal GK,
449 Donoghue HD, Minnikin DE. 2015 Lipid biomarkers provide evolutionary signposts for the
450 oldest known cases of tuberculosis. Tuberculosis 95, S127–S132.
451 (doi:10.1016/j.tube.2015.02.013)
452 39. Resnick DLR. 2002 Diagnosis of Bone and Joint Disorders. 4th Edition. Philadelphia:
453 Saunders.
454 40. Volz W. 1902 Proneusticosaurus, eine neue Sauropterygier-Gattung aus dem Unteren
455 Muschelkalk Oberschlesiens. Palaeontographica 49, 121–162. Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
456 41. Rieppel O, Hagdorn H. 1997 Chapter 5 - Paleobiogeography of Middle Triassic
457 Sauropterygia in Central and Western Europe. In Ancient Marine Reptiles (eds JM Callaway,
458 EL Nicholls), pp. 121–144. San Diego: Academic Press. (doi:10.1016/B978-012155210-
459 7/50009-0)
460 42. Sues H-D. 1987 Postcranial skeleton of Pistosaurus and interrelationships of the
461 Sauropterygia (Diapsida). Zool. J. Linn. Soc. 90, 109–131.
462 43. Voeten DFAE, Sander PM, Klein N. 2015 Skeletal material from larger Eusauropterygia
463 (Reptilia: Eosauropterygia) with nothosaurian and cymatosaurian affinities from the Lower
464 Muschelkalk of Winterswijk, The Netherlands. Paläontol. Z. 89, 943–960.
465 (doi:10.1007/s12542-014-0250-4)
466 44. Sander PM. 1989 The pachypleurosaurids (Reptilia: Nothosauria) from the middle triassic of
467 Monte San Giorgio (Switzerland) with the description of a new species. Philos. Trans. R.
468 Soc. Lond. B. Biol. Sci. 325, 561–666.
469 45. Anson C, Rothschild BM, Naples V. 2012 Soft tissue contributions to pseudopathology of
470 ribs. Adv. Anthropol. 02, 57–63. (doi:10.4236/aa.2012.22007)
471 46. Naples VL, Rothschild BM. 2011 Do ribs actually have a bare area? A new analysis. HOMO
472 - J. Comp. Hum. Biol. 62, 368–373. (doi:10.1016/j.jchb.2011.08.001)
473 47. Lyman RL. 1994 Vertebrate Taphonomy. Cambridge University Press.
474 48. Bennett JE. 1995 Mycoses. In Mandell, Douglas and Bennett’s Principles and Practice of
475 Infectious Diseases., p. 2288–2289. New York, NY: Churchill Livingstone.
476 49. Rothschild BM, Rothschild C. 1998 Recognition of hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in skeletal
477 remains. J Rheumatol 25, 2221–2227.
478 50. Rothschild BM, Rothschild C. 1995 Comparison of radiologic and gross examination for
479 detection of cancer in defleshed skeletons. Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 96, 357–363.
480 51. Meuten DJ. 2016 Tumors in Domestic Animals. John Wiley & Sons.
481 52. Eshed V, Latimer B, Greenwald CM, Jellema LM, Rothschild BM, Wish-Baratz S,
482 Hershkovitz I. 2002 Button osteoma: its etiology and pathophysiology. Am. J. Phys.
483 Anthropol. 118, 217–230. (doi:10.1002/ajpa.10087)
484 53. Asmar S, Sassi M, Phelippeau M, Drancourt M. 2016 Inverse correlation between salt
485 tolerance and host-adaptation in mycobacteria. BMC Res. Notes 9. (doi:10.1186/s13104-016-
486 2054-y)
487 54. Howard ST, Byrd TF. 2000 The rapidly growing mycobacteria: saprophytes and parasites.
488 Microbes Infect. 2, 1845–1853.
489 55. Garg RK, Somvanshi DS. 2011 Spinal tuberculosis: a review. J. Spinal Cord Med. 34, 440–
490 454. (doi:10.1179/2045772311Y.0000000023)
491 56. Aronson JD. 1926 Spontaneous tuberculosis in salt water fish. J. Infect. Dis. , 315–320.
492 57. Gauthier DT, Rhodes MW. 2009 Mycobacteriosis in fishes: A review. Vet. J. 180, 33–47.
493 (doi:10.1016/j.tvjl.2008.05.012)
494 58. Brown SP, Cornforth DM, Mideo N. 2012 Evolution of virulence in opportunistic pathogens:
495 generalism, plasticity, and control. Trends Microbiol. 20, 336–342.
496 (doi:10.1016/j.tim.2012.04.005)
497 59. Scully LR, Bidochka MJ. 2006 A cysteine/methionine auxotroph of the opportunistic fungus
498 Aspergillus flavus is associated with host-range restriction: a model for emerging diseases.
499 Microbiol. Read. Engl. 152, 223–232. (doi:10.1099/mic.0.28452-0)
500 60. Higgins R. 2000 Bacteria and fungi of marine mammals: A review. Can. Vet. J. 41, 105.
501 6160. Diamant A, Banet A, Ucko M, Colorni A, Knibb W, Kvitt H. 2000 Mycobacteriosis in Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
502 wild rabbitfish Siganus rivulatus associated with cage farming in the Gulf of Eilat, Red Sea. Brytania)
503 Dis. Aquat. Organ. 39, 211–219.
504 6261. Gauthier D. T., Latour R. J., Heisey D. M., Bonzek C. F., Gartland J., Burge E. J., Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
505 Vogelbein W. K. 2008 Mycobacteriosis-associated mortality in wild striped bass (Morone Brytania)
506 saxatilis) from Chesapeake Bay, USA. Ecol. Appl. 18, 1718–1727. (doi:10.1890/07-2083.1)
507 6362. Soler D, Brieva C, Ribón W. 2009 Mycobacteriosis in Wild Birds: the Potential risk of Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
508 Disseminating a Little-known Infectious Disease. Rev. Salud Pública 11, 134–144. Brytania)
509 6463. de Lisle GW, Bengis RG, Schmitt SM, O’Brien DJ. 2002 Tuberculosis in free-ranging Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
510 wildlife: detection, diagnosis and management. Rev. Sci. Tech. Int. Off. Epizoot. 21, 317– Brytania)
511 334.
512 64. Higgins R. 2000 Bacteria and fungi of marine mammals: A review. Can. Vet. J. 41, 105.
513 Sformatowano: Czcionka: 10 pkt,
514 65. Klein N, Sander PM, Krahl A, Scheyer TM, Houssaye A. 2016 Diverse Aquatic Adaptations Angielski (Wielka Brytania)
515 in Nothosaurus spp. (Sauropterygia)—Inferences from Humeral Histology and Sformatowano: Normalny
516 Microanatomy. PLOS ONE 11, e0158448. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0158448) Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
517 66. Klein N. 2010 Long Bone Histology of Sauropterygia from the Lower Muschelkalk of the
518 Germanic Basin Provides Unexpected Implications for Phylogeny. PLoS ONE 5, e11613.
519 (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0011613)
520 67. Krahl A, Klein N, Sander PM. 2013 Evolutionary implications of the divergent long bone
521 histologies of Nothosaurus and Pistosaurus (Sauropterygia, Triassic). BMC Evol. Biol. 13, 1.
522 68. Klein N, Griebeler EM. 2016 Bone histology, microanatomy, and growth of the nothosauroid
523 Simosaurus gaillardoti (Sauropterygia) from the Upper Muschelkalk of southern
524 Germany/Baden-Württemberg. Comptes Rendus Palevol 15, 142–162.
525 (doi:10.1016/j.crpv.2015.02.009)
526 69. Houssaye A. 2009 ‘Pachyostosis’ in aquatic amniotes: A review. Integr. Zool. 4, 325–340.
527 (doi:10.1111/j.1749-4877.2009.00146.x)
528 70. Ricqles A, Buffrénil V de, Ricqlès A. 2001 Bone histology, heterochronies and the return of
529 tetrapods to life in water: Where are we?
530 71. Snyder GK. 1983 Respiratory adaptations in diving mammals. Respir. Physiol. 54, 269–294.
531 72. Simpson DG, Kuschner M, McClement J. 1963 Respiratory function in pulmonary
532 tuberculosis. Am. Rev. Respir. Dis. 87, 1–16.
533 73. Surmik D, Rothschild BM, Pawlicki R. 2017 Unusual intraosseous fossilized soft tissues
534 from the Middle Triassic Nothosaurus bone. Sci. Nat. 104. (doi:10.1007/s00114-017-1451-y)
535 Figures captions.
536 Figure 1. ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus holotype, MG UWr. 4438s. (a) the appearance of the
537 specimen in ventral view (with bones outlined) before it was damaged during the World War II
538 (see supplementary material). Reproduction from Volz [3540], Plate 15 with written permission Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
539 of Schweizerbart – Publishers, (http://www.schweizerbart.de/journals/pala). Dotted line indicates Sformatowano: Angielski (Wielka
Brytania)
540 the outline of the remaining middle portion of the specimen. Not to scale. (b) extracted fragment
541 of a dorsal rib used to this study. Arrowheads and dashed line indicate the point of separation of
542 the proximal part of the specimen (left) used for histological sections, and the distal part (right)
543 used for computedX-ray microtomography. Scale bar equals 5 mm. (c) close-up of the specimen,
544 as it appears now, showing dorsal ribs with bleb-like protrusions. Indicated is position of the
545 extracted rib fragment. Serial elements to the right are gastralia. Scale bar equals 10 mm. (d) a
546 fingerprint-like surface of bone and numerous points of entrance for blood vessels, not to scale.
547 Figure 2. MicrotomographicX-ray microtomographic images and three-dimensional
548 reconstruction of dorsal rib fragment of ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus holotype, MG UWr.
549 4438s. (a-h) XMT virtual sections (distal towards proximal) of rib fragment showing superficial
550 blebs (arrows). Note the increased vasculature within the blebs, and the bleb-like shape of older
551 zones. Scale bar equals 1 mm. (i-k) 3-D visualizations of several blebs on the rib surface as well
552 as bone vasculature in the cropped fragment of cortical bone. Note the presence of fingerprint-
553 like system of superficial vascular grooves (i). Not to scale. Ventral (visceral) towards the left.
554 Figure 3. Histology of the dorsal rib of ‘Proneusticosaurus’ silesiacus holotype, MG UWr.
555 4438s. (a,b) the dorsal region of the rib composed of avascular lamellar-zonal bone with well-
556 pronounced zonation, and medullar area in transmitted light (a) and polarized light with <U+03BB>
557 compensation (b). Arrows show lines of arrested growth (LAGs). (c) anterior region of the rib in
558 the polarized light exhibiting the vascularization and rate of bone deposition gradually increasing
559 towards the ventral (visceral) region. Note the wavy organization of the tissue. (d,e)
560 ventroposterior region of the rib in polarized light without (d) and with (e) <U+03BB> compensation
561 showing the vasculature increasing even more and attaining radial organization towards the
562 ventrum. (f,g) ventral region of the rib in transmitted (f) and polarized light with <U+03BB> compensation
563 (g), presenting the radial vasculature and the bleb. Indicated is the LAG separating the
564 pathological outer zone of the bone (dotted line) and the area shown in panel h. (h) close-up of
565 the bleb in transmitted light. Scale bars for panels a-g equal 0.5 mm, for panel h equals 0.1 mm.
566 In all panels ventral (visceral) towards the right.
Society Open
