Body odour disgust sensitivity predicts authoritarian
attitudes
Marco Tullio Liuzza, Torun Lindholm, Caitlin B. Hawley, Marie Gustafsson Sendén, Ingrid
Ekström, Mats J. Olsson and Jonas K. Olofsson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171091.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171091
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 8 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 25 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 26 January 2018
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170465)
11-May-2017
Dear Dr Liuzza:
Manuscript ID RSOS-170465 entitled "Body odor disgust sensitivity predicts authoritarian
attitudes." which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been evaluated.
In light of the Subject Editor's comments found below, we must decline the manuscript for
publication in Royal Society Open Science at this time. However, a new manuscript may be
submitted which takes into consideration the comments below.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to review by reviewer(s) before a decision is rendered.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript using a word processing program and save it on
your computer.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
You may also click the below link to start the resubmission process (or continue the process if you
have already started your resubmission) for your manuscript. If you use the below link you will
not be required to login to ScholarOne Manuscripts.
*** PLEASE NOTE: This is a two-step process. After clicking on the link, you will be directed to a
webpage to confirm. ***
https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos?URL_MASK=47a7e8f83aef425393d87bf3408f6a56
Because we are trying to facilitate timely publication of manuscripts submitted to Royal Society
Open Science, your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 08-Nov-2017. If you are
unable to submit by this date please contact the Editorial Office for options.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
openscience@royalsociety.org
Subject Editor Comments:
In its current form, both the introduction and discussion are very ‘thin’ in their consideration of
how and why body odor disgust sensitivity should predict authoritarian attitudes and political
leader preferences. What is the postulated mechanism? The authors make a short comment
regarding some theories regarding the role of disgust in predicting authoritarian views, but it
would be helpful if these points were elaborated. Otherwise it is difficult for a non-specialist to
really make the connection here. It is also tricky to know what to do with this finding? The
authors should spell out more clearly why we should care and what is the utility of knowing
about an association between body odour disgust sensitivity and authoritarian
views/preferences.
I was not sure whether the authors were able to control for potential income/living
environment/neighbourhood differences between the participants. Could such potential
differences in past environmental exposures explain some of the associations reported here? This
deserves some comment.
The authors should avoid using excessive acronyms, which make the paper difficult to follow for
a general science audience.
Finally, the authors should take care when making statements regarding correlations that are
really not going to be in any meaningful way different from each other. For example, the authors
write: “Replicating findings from Study 1, we found strong evidence in favour of the hypothesis
that RWA correlates with BODS (Pearson’s r = .24, BF10 = 14.44) and only anecdotal evidence in
3
favour of the correlation between RWA and general disgust sensitivity as measured by DS-R
(Pearson’s r = .19, BF10 = 2.5; see Table 3 and Figure 2).” A difference between .24 and .19 is not of
substantive magnitude (and is unlikely to be statistically significant). Furthermore a correlation of
.24 does not point to a very large degree of explanatory power re: authoritarian attitudes. The
writing should be tempered accordingly.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170465)
See Appendix A.
label_version_1
RSOS-171091.R0 (Revision)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting and well-conducted study and I look forward to seeing a slightly updated
version in print. I note that I do not have sufficient familiarity with Bayesian analyses to fully
evaluate the paper, but I’m quite familiar with much of the topic area, and the reporting of
correlation coefficients gives me enough to go on.
I saw only a few issues that I think need to be addressed before this study is published:
-On page 15, the authors state “We also found that BODS performs better than other
measures of disgust, such as TDDS-pat, DSR and PVD in predicting authoritarianism.” I read
statements like those as reflecting an analysis showing that there is a statistically significant
difference in the predictive power of BODS and these other measures, but it doesn’t seem the
4
authors have demonstrated this. The paper is obviously worth publishing even if this claim can’t
be demonstrated due to power considerations; perhaps the sentence can just be slightly altered.
-I don’t think the discussion of SDO and RWA at the bottom of the intro of Study 3 accurately
reflects these concepts. (“While RWA and SDO are positively correlated in
the population, SDO uniquely captures the tendency of some individuals to “step on others to get
ahead”. Of importance to our study, social dominance typically requires direct social interactions,
which does not reduce pathogen threat, in contrast to RWA, which appeals to authorities to
provide a rigid social order.”) SDO refers the preference for a society in which inequality among
groups is tolerated (or even promoted); if my memory is correct, the items don’t refer to personal
interactions with the groups to be subordinated/dominated. By contrast, RWA does include such
items: everyday citizens are supposed to help “stomp out the rot” or “eliminate” the targeted
groups. This is marginally important, in that it suggests that the different effects can’t necessarily
be motivated by different expectations for physical contact with the victimized groups. However,
I think the issue is simply with this description, and not with the study concept or the general
research on the behavioral immune system (BIS); so the authors could be fine simply with
paraphrasing the general BIS logic on the issue.
More generally, this is a readable and interesting paper, though I wish the authors had been a bit
more careful to make sure that tables and figures were labelled and that abbreviations were
clearly and consistently used (e.g. TTD.pat).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript of Liuzza et al. addresses a relevant yet unexplored issue in political psychology,
namely the relation between body odor disgust sensitivity and authoritarianism. The manuscript
reports 3 studies conducted with M-Turk in 2013, 2015 and 2016 and provides novel and exciting
evidence that I think could have an impact in the field.
In study 1 and 2, scores at a body odor disgust sensitivity (BODS) scale explained the positive
5
relationship between general disgust sensitivity and authoritarianism. In study 3, BODS scores
predicted support for the presidential candidate Donald Trump at the upcoming US election and
authoritarianism explained the positive association between BODS and support for Trump.
Authors propose that authoritarianism and body odor disgust sensitivity might be part of the
same disease avoidance framework.
I was asked to review this manuscript after a first round of reviews. I had chance to carefully read
this excellent paper as well as the previous concerns raised by the reviewers and authors’ replies.
The authors have done an excellent job in addressing all the concerns raised in the previous
round. They now provide a clear rationale and theoretical background for their studies. The
methods sound data analysis has been conducted rigorously, combining frequentist hypothesis
testing and bayesian analyses. Moreover, in the revised version authors have clarified and
improved interpretation of the statistical analysis.
Overall, I think this manuscript could be accepted nearly as it stands. I have a single, minor point.
Disgust sensitivity has attracted the interest of many scholars in cognitive sciences and more
recently neuroscience. I think the manuscript could increase its potential impact if authors could
elaborate more on the possible mechanisms supporting their findings. The following reviews
could be of help in this regard and authors may want to consider them in their manuscript:
- Hibbing JR et al, 2014. Differences in negativity bias underlie variations in political ideology.
Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Jun;37(3):297-307. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X13001192.
- Vicario CM et al. 2017. Core, social and moral disgust are bounded: A review on behavioral and
neural bases of repugnance in clinical disorders. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2017 Sep;80:185-200. doi:
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2017.05.00
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171091)
19-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Liuzza
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171091 entitled
"Body odor disgust sensitivity predicts authoritarian attitudes." has been accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee
suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
6
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171091
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Jan-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
7
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Geoffrey Bird (Associate Editor) and Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting and well-conducted study and I look forward to seeing a slightly updated
version in print. I note that I do not have sufficient familiarity with Bayesian analyses to fully
evaluate the paper, but I’m quite familiar with much of the topic area, and the reporting of
correlation coefficients gives me enough to go on.
I saw only a few issues that I think need to be addressed before this study is published:
-On page 15, the authors state “We also found that BODS performs better than other
measures of disgust, such as TDDS-pat, DSR and PVD in predicting authoritarianism.” I read
statements like those as reflecting an analysis showing that there is a statistically significant
difference in the predictive power of BODS and these other measures, but it doesn’t seem the
authors have demonstrated this. The paper is obviously worth publishing even if this claim can’t
be demonstrated due to power considerations; perhaps the sentence can just be slightly altered.
-I don’t think the discussion of SDO and RWA at the bottom of the intro of Study 3 accurately
reflects these concepts. (“While RWA and SDO are positively correlated in
the population, SDO uniquely captures the tendency of some individuals to “step on others to get
ahead”. Of importance to our study, social dominance typically requires direct social interactions,
which does not reduce pathogen threat, in contrast to RWA, which appeals to authorities to
provide a rigid social order.”) SDO refers the preference for a society in which inequality among
groups is tolerated (or even promoted); if my memory is correct, the items don’t refer to personal
interactions with the groups to be subordinated/dominated. By contrast, RWA does include such
items: everyday citizens are supposed to help “stomp out the rot” or “eliminate” the targeted
groups. This is marginally important, in that it suggests that the different effects can’t necessarily
be motivated by different expectations for physical contact with the victimized groups. However,
I think the issue is simply with this description, and not with the study concept or the general
research on the behavioral immune system (BIS); so the authors could be fine simply with
paraphrasing the general BIS logic on the issue.
More generally, this is a readable and interesting paper, though I wish the authors had been a bit
more careful to make sure that tables and figures were labelled and that abbreviations were
clearly and consistently used (e.g. TTD.pat).
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript of Liuzza et al. addresses a relevant yet unexplored issue in political psychology,
namely the relation between body odor disgust sensitivity and authoritarianism. The manuscript
reports 3 studies conducted with M-Turk in 2013, 2015 and 2016 and provides novel and exciting
evidence that I think could have an impact in the field.
In study 1 and 2, scores at a body odor disgust sensitivity (BODS) scale explained the positive
relationship between general disgust sensitivity and authoritarianism. In study 3, BODS scores
predicted support for the presidential candidate Donald Trump at the upcoming US election and
authoritarianism explained the positive association between BODS and support for Trump.
Authors propose that authoritarianism and body odor disgust sensitivity might be part of the
same disease avoidance framework.
9
I was asked to review this manuscript after a first round of reviews. I had chance to carefully read
this excellent paper as well as the previous concerns raised by the reviewers and authors’ replies.
The authors have done an excellent job in addressing all the concerns raised in the previous
round. They now provide a clear rationale and theoretical background for their studies. The
methods sound data analysis has been conducted rigorously, combining frequentist hypothesis
testing and bayesian analyses. Moreover, in the revised version authors have clarified and
improved interpretation of the statistical analysis.
Overall, I think this manuscript could be accepted nearly as it stands. I have a single, minor point.
Disgust sensitivity has attracted the interest of many scholars in cognitive sciences and more
recently neuroscience. I think the manuscript could increase its potential impact if authors could
elaborate more on the possible mechanisms supporting their findings. The following reviews
could be of help in this regard and authors may want to consider them in their manuscript:
- Hibbing JR et al, 2014. Differences in negativity bias underlie variations in political
ideology. Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Jun;37(3):297-307. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X13001192.
- Vicario CM et al. 2017. Core, social and moral disgust are bounded: A review on
behavioral and neural bases of repugnance in clinical disorders. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2017
Sep;80:185-200. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2017.05.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171091)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171091.R1)
26-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Liuzza,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Body odor disgust sensitivity predicts
authoritarian attitudes." is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
10
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear Alice,
We are grateful to the Subject Editor for giving us the chance to improve our manuscript and we thank
him/her for his/her insightful observations. Please find below a point-by-point response (in blue font) to
the comments raised by the Subject Editor. We hope that our changes are satisfactory.
Subject Editor Comments:
In its current form, both the introduction and discussion are very ‘thin’ in their consideration of how and
why body odor disgust sensitivity should predict authoritarian attitudes and political leader preferences.
What is the postulated mechanism? The authors make a short comment regarding some theories
regarding the role of disgust in predicting authoritarian views, but it would be helpful if these points
were elaborated. Otherwise it is difficult for a non-specialist to really make the connection here. It is also
tricky to know what to do with this finding? The authors should spell out more clearly why we should
care and what is the utility of knowing about an association between body odour disgust sensitivity and
authoritarian views/preferences.
-We thank the Editor for having highlighted this shortcoming. We now provide a more detailed rationale
for our study in the introduction, focusing on the prior literature regarding the relationship between the
BIS and social conservatism.
Similarly, we now discuss our results in greater detail, especially in terms of the impact they might have
for our understanding of disgust and ideology.
I was not sure whether the authors were able to control for potential income/living
environment/neighbourhood differences between the participants. Could such potential differences in
past environmental exposures explain some of the associations reported here? This deserves some
comment.
-Unfortunately, we did not address this issue. As wages and costs of living vary greatly across different
regions of the USA, we were doubtful that this variable would reflect differences in living environment in
a meaningful way. However, we assessed the level of education, which is considered a good proxy of
income as well as other key lifestyle variables. We added these considerations in the revised discussion:
“Another possible limitation is that we lacked a measure of income, which is often associated with
positive attitudes toward immigration [89]. Nevertheless, in our analyses, we controlled for education,
which may be considered a good proxy of income and other lifestyle factors.”
The authors should avoid using excessive acronyms, which make the paper difficult to follow for a
general science audience.
-We reduced the use of acronyms in the revised version of the manuscript. For instance, we used
‘authoritarianism’ and ‘social dominance’ instead of RWA and SDO whenever possible.
Finally, the authors should take care when making statements regarding correlations that are really not
going to be in any meaningful way different from each other. For example, the authors write:
“Replicating findings from Study 1, we found strong evidence in favour of the hypothesis that RWA
correlates with BODS (Pearson’s r = .24, BF10 = 14.44) and only anecdotal evidence in favour of the
correlation between RWA and general disgust sensitivity as measured by DS-R (Pearson’s r = .19, BF10
= 2.5; see Table 3 and Figure 2).” A difference between .24 and .19 is not of substantive magnitude
(and is unlikely to be statistically significant). Furthermore a correlation of .24 does not point to a very
large degree of explanatory power re: authoritarian attitudes. The writing should be tempered
accordingly.
- In order to label the level of evidence in favor of the alternative or null hypotheses, we interpreted the
sizes of BFs according to the recommendations of Raftery (1995), as referred to by (Jarosz & Wiley,
2014), and we changed the labels accordingly.
So, for instance, the aforementioned sentence now reads as follows: “Replicating findings from Study 1,
we found positive evidence in favour of the hypothesis that RWA correlates with BODS (Pearson’s r =
.24, BF10 = 14.44) and weak evidence in favour of the correlation between RWA and general disgust
sensitivity as measured by DS-R (Pearson’s r = .19, BF10 = 2.5; see Table 3 and Figure 2). “
Please note that labeling evidence in favor/against the relationship does not have anything to do with
testing the difference between correlation coefficients. We agree with the editor that these effects are
likely not ‘statistically different’ from each other (we avoid using the term ‘significant’ as we do not want
to refer to labels traditionally used for frequentist NHST statistical analyses).
As for the explanatory power, we would like to highlight that although our effects are not very large,
they are perfectly in line with the effect magnitude established by meta-analytical evidence regarding
the relationship between the BIS and social conservatism (Terrizzi et al., 2013). Furthermore, our
effects are of a magnitude that one might expect, given the finding of a ‘meta– meta-analysis’
summarizing 322 meta-analyses with more than 25,000 published studies in the field of personality and
social psychology (Richard, Bond, and Stokes-Zoota; 2003). Our results are thus more credible than
they would have been if the effects were implausibly large.
This important topic is now discussed in the revised manuscript (Discussion):
“Although the size of the BODS-authoritarianism association is of small-to-medium size, its magnitude is
in line with previous meta-analytical evidence (0.21 < rs < .36) on the relationship between BIS
measures and social conservatism [74]. More generally, the effect sizes found in our three studies are
consistent with the finding of a “meta–meta-analysis” summarizing 322 meta-analyses with more than
25,000 published studies in the field of personality and social psychology [75], which showed an average
effect of r =.21. Furthermore, although the idea that unconscious motivations determine political
attitudes is intriguing [76], they are arguably predominately driven by explicit processes, where
socialization plays an important role (see [77] for a detailed review). Hence it is not surprising to see
unconscious motivations explaining only a small portion of the overall variance when it comes to political
attitudes.”
Appendix B
Dear Alice Power,
We want to express our gratitude to you and to the Editors for handling the
manuscript and to the Reviewers for providing their assessment and insightful
observations.
Below, you can find a point-by-point response to observations expressed by the
Reviewers (in bold font). We hope that with these changes, our manuscript might
be considered suitable for publication.
On behalf of the co-authors,
Marco Tullio Liuzza
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting and well-conducted study and I look forward to seeing a slightly
updated version in print. I note that I do not have sufficient familiarity with Bayesian
analyses to fully evaluate the paper, but I’m quite familiar with much of the topic
area, and the reporting of correlation coefficients gives me enough to go on.
I saw only a few issues that I think need to be addressed before this study is
published:
-On page 15, the authors state “We also found that BODS performs better than
other measures of disgust, such as TDDS-pat, DSR and PVD in predicting
authoritarianism.” I read statements like those as reflecting an analysis showing that
there is a statistically significant difference in the predictive power of BODS and
these other measures, but it doesn’t seem the authors have demonstrated this. The
paper is obviously worth publishing even if this claim can’t be demonstrated due to
power considerations; perhaps the sentence can just be slightly altered.
The observation of the Reviewer is correct and we removed that sentence from the
present manuscript.
-I don’t think the discussion of SDO and RWA at the bottom of the intro of Study 3
accurately reflects these concepts. (“While RWA and SDO are positively correlated in
the population, SDO uniquely captures the tendency of some individuals to “step on
others to get ahead”. Of importance to our study, social dominance typically
requires direct social interactions, which does not reduce pathogen threat, in
contrast to RWA, which appeals to authorities to provide a rigid social order.”) SDO
refers the preference for a society in which inequality among groups is tolerated (or
even promoted); if my memory is correct, the items don’t refer to personal
interactions with the groups to be subordinated/dominated. By contrast, RWA does
include such items: everyday citizens are supposed to help “stomp out the rot” or
“eliminate” the targeted groups. This is marginally important, in that it suggests that
the different effects can’t necessarily be motivated by different expectations for
physical contact with the victimized groups. However, I think the issue is simply with
this description, and not with the study concept or the general research on the
behavioral immune system (BIS); so the authors could be fine simply with
paraphrasing the general BIS logic on the issue.
We thank the Reviewer for this important observation. We now rephrased our
discussion of the specific effect of RWA (vs. SDO) in mediating the relationship
between the BODS and the intention to vote for Trump as follows:
“While RWA and SDO are positively correlated in the population, SDO uniquely
captures the tendency of some individuals to “step on others to get ahead”, is
motivated by perceiving the world as a “competitive jungle” and prompts
dominance behaviours towards groups perceived as competing for resources, etc.
On the other hand, RWA is motivated by perceiving the world as a dangerous place
and prompts prejudice towards threatening groups and RWA is therefore more
likely to be related to threat-avoidance concerns, such as those involving
pathogens.”
More generally, this is a readable and interesting paper, though I wish the authors
had been a bit more careful to make sure that tables and figures were labelled and
that abbreviations were clearly and consistently used (e.g. TTD.pat).
We thank the Reviewer for this observation and we apologize for the
inconvenience; we now use the labels consistently throughout the text. As for the
tables and figures, we have made an effort to label them properly in the present
re-submission.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript of Liuzza et al. addresses a relevant yet unexplored issue in political
psychology, namely the relation between body odor disgust sensitivity and
authoritarianism. The manuscript reports 3 studies conducted with M-Turk in 2013,
2015 and 2016 and provides novel and exciting evidence that I think could have an
impact in the field.
In study 1 and 2, scores at a body odor disgust sensitivity (BODS) scale explained the
positive relationship between general disgust sensitivity and authoritarianism. In
study 3, BODS scores predicted support for the presidential candidate Donald Trump
at the upcoming US election and authoritarianism explained the positive association
between BODS and support for Trump. Authors propose that authoritarianism and
body odor disgust sensitivity might be part of the same disease avoidance
framework.
I was asked to review this manuscript after a first round of reviews. I had chance to
carefully read this excellent paper as well as the previous concerns raised by the
reviewers and authors’ replies. The authors have done an excellent job in addressing
all the concerns raised in the previous round. They now provide a clear rationale and
theoretical background for their studies. The methods sound data analysis has been
conducted rigorously, combining frequentist hypothesis testing and bayesian
analyses. Moreover, in the revised version authors have clarified and improved
interpretation of the statistical analysis.
Overall, I think this manuscript could be accepted nearly as it stands. I have a single,
minor point. Disgust sensitivity has attracted the interest of many scholars in
cognitive sciences and more recently neuroscience. I think the manuscript could
increase its potential impact if authors could elaborate more on the possible
mechanisms supporting their findings. The following reviews could be of help in this
regard and authors may want to consider them in their manuscript:
- Hibbing JR et al, 2014. Differences in negativity bias underlie variations in
political ideology. Behav Brain Sci. 2014 Jun;37(3):297-307. doi:
10.1017/S0140525X13001192.
- Vicario CM et al. 2017. Core, social and moral disgust are bounded: A review on
behavioral and neural bases of repugnance in clinical disorders. Neurosci Biobehav
Rev. 2017 Sep;80:185-200. doi: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2017.05.00
We agree with the Reviewer that these two references are highly relevant for our
discussion, as the Hibbing et al. (2014) paper provides an important theoretical
framework that suggests a more general negative bias among conservatives, while
the Vicario et al. (2017) review supports the notion of the evolution of social and
moral disgust from core disgust. We now included these references as follows
(changes in the text are marked in yellow):
“Disgusting substances (e.g., feces, mucus and wounds) often contain pathogens
[7]. Disgust is, however, also elicited by noncontagious cues, such as physical,
moral or sexual deviations, suggesting that an overly sensitive behavioural defence
creates physical and social distance to others who are perceived as carrying even
the slightest risk of contagion, leading to social stigmatization [8]. Moreover,
recent reviews show a substantial overlap between the neurophysiological basis of
core disgust and moral disgust, which supports the notion that social and moral
disgust may have evolved from core disgust [9].”
[…]
“ Such authoritarianism is viewed as an ideological expression of being highly
vigilant to perceived threats [23]. It has been shown that people on the right of the
political spectrum tend to display a negativity bias [24-26], namely more marked
psychological and physiological responses to features in the environment that are
negative.”
Society Open
