Resistance is futile: lack of predator switching and a
preference for native prey predict the success of an
invasive prey species
Ross N. Cuthbert, James W. E. Dickey, Clare McMorrow, Ciaran Laverty and Jaimie T. A.
Dick
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180339.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180339
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 March 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180339.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors submit a concise, well written and informative manuscript. I found the materials
well presented and clear to follow. The subject area of prey switching and what the implications
are for biotic resistance in invasion ecology as a mechanism for invasion success is understudied
with regards to the FR application.
As noted from the submission, the paper has already been through a round of reviews and I am
satisfied that the authors have dealt adequately in their responses and edits. I would also
question the use of single replicates for controls however do not feel that it damages the integrity
of the work.
I would also be interested in the discussion of the drivers that are resulting in the native prey
being selected for over the invasive prey. Is this a result of prey behaviours or simply familiarity
with the native over the invasive. However I expect the word count of the journal does not allow
for expansion on this issue.
Two minor formatting comments I have are:
Line 68-70 – In this study…
This sentence is cumbersome and hard to read
Line 84 Experiment 1 vs line 87 Experiment two
Select either numbers or words and use throughout.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Greg Mutze)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This ms neatly highlights the inadequacy of simple theoretical models such as functional
response curves for predicting the outcome of biotic invasions. It is therefore valuable and timely.
Well done. However it does not demonstrate that models incorporating both functional response
and prey switching will be reliable predictors, despite the fact that the experimental results
appear to match field observations. The outcome of biotic invasions is likely to be influenced by a
wide array of interacting biotic and abiotic factors; the experimental results may have been
reversed if, for example, specific habitat features or higher order predators had been included.
A stronger caveat is still needed in the Discussion to make it clear that prey switching is one more
critical aspect to be used alongside FRs, but that more complex models incorporating response to
a wider range of biotic and abiotic factors are likely to be needed to produce reliable models of
likely invasion success and impact.
Minor comments
The authors response to previous reviews appear to have tidied up the ms well.
In the abstract, line 28, I suggest that predators consumed "..disproportionately more native prey
than expected from the relative abundance of native and invasive species." the last phrase in this
sentence is unnecessary given what comes before and follows it.
line 85 "n=3 replicates per density" just to be perfectly clear.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180339.R0)
29-Jun-2018
Dear Mr Cuthbert
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180339 entitled
"Resistance is futile: lack of predator switching and a preference for native prey predict the
success of an invasive prey species" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
4
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180339
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript before 08-Jul-2018. Please note that the revision deadline
will expire at 00.00am on this date. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let
me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
5
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science charge article processing charges for all new
submissions that are accepted for publication. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to
Royal Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers
submitted as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication, you will be
asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is approved by
Royal Society Publishing. You can find out more about the charges at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
6
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Tobler (Associate Editor) and Prof. Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Tobler):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Two reviewers have re-evaluated the revised manuscript. Both of them agree that the authors
addressed previous concerns. Both reviewers have a handful of minor suggestions for the
improvement of the manuscript that should be addressed prior to the acceptance of the paper.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors submit a concise, well written and informative manuscript. I found the materials
well presented and clear to follow. The subject area of prey switching and what the implications
are for biotic resistance in invasion ecology as a mechanism for invasion success is understudied
with regards to the FR application.
As noted from the submission, the paper has already been through a round of reviews and I am
satisfied that the authors have dealt adequately in their responses and edits. I would also
question the use of single replicates for controls however do not feel that it damages the integrity
of the work.
I would also be interested in the discussion of the drivers that are resulting in the native prey
being selected for over the invasive prey. Is this a result of prey behaviours or simply familiarity
with the native over the invasive. However I expect the word count of the journal does not allow
for expansion on this issue.
Two minor formatting comments I have are:
Line 68-70 – In this study…
This sentence is cumbersome and hard to read
Line 84 Experiment 1 vs line 87 Experiment two
Select either numbers or words and use throughout.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This ms neatly highlights the inadequacy of simple theoretical models such as functional
response curves for predicting the outcome of biotic invasions. It is therefore valuable and timely.
Well done. However it does not demonstrate that models incorporating both functional response
7
and prey switching will be reliable predictors, despite the fact that the experimental results
appear to match field observations. The outcome of biotic invasions is likely to be influenced by a
wide array of interacting biotic and abiotic factors; the experimental results may have been
reversed if, for example, specific habitat features or higher order predators had been included.
A stronger caveat is still needed in the Discussion to make it clear that prey switching is one more
critical aspect to be used alongside FRs, but that more complex models incorporating response to
a wider range of biotic and abiotic factors are likely to be needed to produce reliable models of
likely invasion success and impact.
Minor comments
The authors response to previous reviews appear to have tidied up the ms well.
In the abstract, line 28, I suggest that predators consumed "..disproportionately more native prey
than expected from the relative abundance of native and invasive species." the last phrase in this
sentence is unnecessary given what comes before and follows it.
line 85 "n=3 replicates per density" just to be perfectly clear.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180339.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180339.R1)
03-Jul-2018
Dear Mr Cuthbert,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Resistance is futile: lack of predator
switching and a preference for native prey predict the success of an invasive prey species" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
8
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Michael Tobler (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The authors submit a concise, well written and informative manuscript. I
found the materials well presented and clear to follow. The subject area of
prey switching and what the implications are for biotic resistance in invasion
ecology as a mechanism for invasion success is understudied with regards to
the FR application.
As noted from the submission, the paper has already been through a round of
reviews and I am satisfied that the authors have dealt adequately in their
responses and edits. I would also question the use of single replicates for
controls however do not feel that it damages the integrity of the work.
I would also be interested in the discussion of the drivers that are resulting in
the native prey being selected for over the invasive prey. Is this a result of
prey behaviours or simply familiarity with the native over the invasive.
However I expect the word count of the journal does not allow for expansion
on this issue.
Response: We thank the Reviewer for positive comments regarding the
succinctness and value of the manuscript in the context of invasion
ecology. Although the intrinsic drivers of our results are not examined
experimentally, the result could be a combination of behavioural and
coevolutionary elements. We feel, and agree, that further in-depth
discussion of this aspect would detract from the present conciseness of the
article.
Two minor formatting comments I have are:
Line 68-70 – In this study…
This sentence is cumbersome and hard to read
Response: We have amended L68-71 to improve the readability of this
sentence.
Line 84 Experiment 1 vs line 87 Experiment two
Select either numbers or words and use throughout.
Response: We thank the Reviewer for this observation, and have made
the terminology consistent throughout the MS. See L94 and L102.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
This ms neatly highlights the inadequacy of simple theoretical models such as
functional response curves for predicting the outcome of biotic invasions. It is
therefore valuable and timely. Well done. However it does not demonstrate
that models incorporating both functional response and prey switching will be
reliable predictors, despite the fact that the experimental results appear to
match field observations. The outcome of biotic invasions is likely to be
influenced by a wide array of interacting biotic and abiotic factors; the
experimental results may have been reversed if, for example, specific habitat
features or higher order predators had been included.
A stronger caveat is still needed in the Discussion to make it clear that prey
switching is one more critical aspect to be used alongside FRs, but that more
complex models incorporating response to a wider range of biotic and abiotic
factors are likely to be needed to produce reliable models of likely invasion
success and impact.
Response: We thank the Reviewer for their comments surrounding the
utility of classic theoretical frameworks in the context of invasion ecology.
We agree entirely that further research incorporating further effects
associated with varied environmental contexts is required to holistically
model invasions, and expect future research to extend our framework in
this manner. We have added a further element to L160 to further this
point.
Minor comments
The authors response to previous reviews appear to have tidied up the ms
well.
In the abstract, line 28, I suggest that predators consumed
"..disproportionately more native prey than expected from the relative
abundance of native and invasive species." the last phrase in this sentence is
unnecessary given what comes before and follows it.
Response: We have implemented the suggested change by the reviewer to
L28-29.
line 85 "n=3 replicates per density" just to be perfectly clear.
Response: We have added the suggestion to L86 and L90.
Society Open
