Bi-logistic model for disease dynamics caused by
Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Russia
Anastasia I. Lavrova, Eugene B. Postnikov, Olga A. Manicheva and Boris I. Vishnevsky
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171033.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171033
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 1 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 9 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 10 August 2017
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170709.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see review attached (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170709)
07-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Lavrova:
Manuscript ID RSOS-170709 entitled "Bilogistic model for disease dynamics caused by M.
tuberculosis in Russia" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed.
The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 04-Jan-2018. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Kevin Padian, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Dear author
We have received only one review on your article but it shows a number of issues which need to
be resolved before considering publication.
We hope you will find this review useful and will take it into account for submitting a new
version of your communication.
Best regards
3
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see review attached
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170709)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-171033.R0 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see review attached (Appendix C).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171033)
07-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Lavrova
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171033 entitled
"Bi-logistic model for disease dynamics caused by M. tuberculosis in Russia" has been accepted
4
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171033
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Aug-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
6
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
Dear Authors
In the revised version of your manuscript you have correctly addressed the criticisms of the
reviewer and it is my pleasure to recommend it for publication with minor revision.
Please take the few remaining points into account for submitting the final version.
Best regards
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Please see review attached
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171033)
See Appendix D.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171033.R1)
10-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Lavrova,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Bi-logistic model for disease dynamics
caused by M. tuberculosis in Russia" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Referee report on a manuscript RSO-170709, ”Bilogistic model
for disease dynamics caused by M. tuberculosis in Russia” by A.I.
Lavrova, E.B. Postnikov, O.A. Manicheva, B.I. Vishnevsky
This paper uses an SIR model for multiple individual strains of tuberculosis to understand
the cumulative behaviour of TB in Russia. Using an explicit solution for the population no
longer susceptible to the primary TB infection under certain approximation, the authors
obtain an expression for the overall infection prevalence. Whilst I find the paper interesting,
there is a number of issues that should be addressed prior to publication (all pages referred
to below are references to pages of the PDF submission).
Major questions:
1) How is the ”data” in Fig. 1 obtained for individual components? More specifically, can
the coefficients a, b, d and <U+03BA> be interpreted as real biological parameters that can be mea-
sured in the laboratory?
2) If I understand correctly, each group has its dynamics gives by equation (8), so that to-
gether they give the combined burden of disease as given in (9). If this is the case, then the
growth of each respective Ri should be monotonic and concave upwards (second derivative
is negative) as given in (9), and from Fig. 1 it is clearly not, as the black curve appears to
have in inflexion point around the year 2000, so something is missing in the argument, and
the authors should provide a clear explanation for this.
The same question applies to Fig. 3, where the green curve is actually going down, while
according to (8) and (9), each of the components should only be increasing.
3) What is the epidemiological interpretation of Fig. 1 and the choice of parameters for the
two components? Since they have drastically different values, how realistic is it to expect
that in the population the rates would be so different? Also, how can this be explained
in terms of actual population/epidemiological data for Russia, i.e. can the authors identify
distinct population groups that would fit such different patterns of disease transmission and
recovery, or different bacterial strains?
Minor (but important) points:
1) On p. 4, when introducing the model the authors should clearly state that k is the disease
transmission rate, and also explain what specifically t is, especially in the context of TB,
where the individuals can become chronically infected. Since normally t in SIR models akin
to (1)-(3) represents the average duration of infection, how can it be determined by ”social
reasons”, as stated in l. 2 on p. 5?
2) p. 5, l. 19, strictly speaking, at the very start of an epidemic, the condition R(0) = 0
is exact, as no-one has yet recovered from a disease, so it does not have to be additionally
assumed. It is also worth mentioning that the authors just divide equation (1) by equation
(3) and then integrate the resulting equation.
1
3) p. 5, l. 34, the authors mention ”realistic medically observed values” - it would be very
helpful to the readers if the authors could provide examples with references to support this
statement.
4) p. 6, l. 7, the authors should either provide a reference for equation (9) or show in detail
how this expression is derived. Also, I see a major modelling issue here, as the authors treat
each individual infection or strain as if it were operating on its own population of susceptible
individuals, while they are, in fact, spreading concurrently in the same total population.
So, the authors should provide a clear explanation for how one can go from a single model
(1)-(3) to a model with multiple subgroups.
Should the two terms in (9) under the sum be inside a bracket? Is there an extra bracket
after ai ?
5) p. 6, l. 13, what is R0 in the expression for <U+03BA>-1 ? If it is the initial value of R(0), then
shouldn’t all of them be equal to zero?
6) p. 6, lines 19-30, some further details are needed on what the Fisher-Pry transform does,
and what it means, so that the readers could follow the presentation without the need to
refer to [18].
7) p. 6, l. 48 - the formula is not clear: is the sum taken over n from 1 to j? Are Rj the
same as Ri used in (9)? If yes, then where does this new formula come from, as the total
prevalence at any given moment of time (i.e. the sum of all Ii ) is not the same as the sum
of Ri of those who have already recovered from strain i?
8) R0 should be defined there as kt , as the authors use it on p. 7, l. 42 without it being
defined beforehand.
9) p. 8, l. 21, R0 should be R0 .
10) Choose one spelling: either “bi-logistic” or “bilogistic”, and use it consistently through-
out the manuscript.
11) It is worth reading the paper carefully one more time and running a spellcheck to correct
numerous typos, such as
p. 3, l . 59 “non-monotonous character” - > “non-monotone”
p. 4, l. 54 “the a cumulative”
p. 5, l. 11 “averagely constant population size”, remove “averagely” as there is no averaging
in the model, it already assumes a homogeneously mixed population of constant size
p. 5, l. 36 “origianal” - > original
p. 7, l. 9 “these these”,
p. 7, l. 9 “processes actually resembles” - > should be “resemble”
p. 13, l. 20, “model have been developed” - > “model... has been developed”
2
Appendix B
Dear Editor,
We thank Reviewer for very detailed report, which revealed unclear text parts, possible misunder-
standing, and misprints. The manuscript’s text is substantially revised in the sense of additional expla-
nations and comments as well as fixing misprints. The list of detailed answers and revisions is presented
below.
Major questions:
1) How is the data in Fig. 1 obtained for individual components? More specifically, can the coefficients
a, b, d and be interpreted as real biological parameters that can be measured in the laboratory?
All fitting coefficients (a,b,c,d) used for building of bi-logistic components in Fig. 1, were obtained
from the processing WHO data on the first detected tuberculosis cases. To get these parameters, we
applied loglet software specially suited for such fitting by a composition of logistic curves with the
subsequent adjustment of coefficients to minimize deviations from the WHO reported data (our own
MATLAB procedure). This gives a set of coefficients ai , <U+03BA>i , bi , di , which were used to draw individual
components (black and green curves, elements of the sum in Eq. 9) and the their sum, Eq. (9), as (red
curve).
The decomposition of WHO data RW HO = I into two subsets of markers RjW HO (t) (j = 1, 2) was
P
evaluated element-by-element as RjW HO (t) = RW HO (t) - Rk , k 6= j, k = 1, 2, where RW HO is the full
analysed WHO data, Rj is the set of logistically fitted values for the subset Rk , which is complementary
to the the component with the index j.
We need to stress that we do not build a kind of multicomponent SIR model introducing the coefficient
ai , <U+03BA>i , bi , di from some preliminary estimations and testing the obtained time curves via a comparison with
data, but, conversely, we start from the existing medical data and check, whether they satisfy a bi-logistic
model chosen from certain qualitative arguments. In the revised version of manuscript, we expanded the
description of mathematical motivation for this choice and the applied procedure.
As for the second part of this question, the parameters ai , <U+03BA>i , bi , di have, certainly, a definite biological
sense because they are connected with virulence, the characteristic time of active bacterial excretion, etc,
but also they strictly depend on social (and socio-economic) conditions: contact rates, quality of isolation
of sick person, economic situation which influence on the human general health state, etc. All these factors
can not be measured a priory. On the other hand, as it is stated above, we solve not the direct but inverse
problem, i.e. our goal is to determine these parameters from outbreak data, not to state them ab initio,
although, we provide some short discussion of qualitative correspondence to laboratory-based virulence
measurements, but it is a qualitative correspondence only.
2) If I understand correctly, each group has its dynamics gives by equation (8), so that together they
give the combined burden of disease as given in (9). If this is the case, then the growth of each respective
Ri should be monotonic and concave upwards (second derivative is negative) as given in (9), and from
Fig. 1 it is clearly not, as the black curve appears to have in inflexion point around the year 2000, so
something is missing in the argument, and the authors should provide a clear explanation for this. The
same question applies to Fig. 3, where the green curve is actually going down, while according to (8)
and (9), each of the components should only be increasing.
It should be noted that Reviewer does not have a very correct mathematical line of argumentation:
the second derivative of Ri is not negative but sign-altering. Let us show this in details. Eq. (8),
(kt )2 R
 
dR -1
= t (kt - 1)R 1 -
dt 2(kt - 1)
is the standard Verhulst logistic equation. It has two stationary points: the unstable Rs1 = 0 and
-1)
the stable Rs2 = 2(kt (kt )2
. As a result, R takes its values within the interval R <U+2208> [R(0) > 0, Rs2 ] and
monotonously grows since dR/dt = 0 within this interval.
On the other hand, the second derivative mentioned by Reviewer, actually changes its sign, as it can
be easily checked:
d2 R (kt )2 R (kt )2 dR (kt )2 R
     
-1 dR -1 dR
= t (kt - 1) 1- -R = t (kt - 1) 1- .
dt2 dt 2(kt - 1) 2(kt - 1) dt dt (kt - 1)
Thus, d2 R/dt2 > 0 if 0 < R < Rs2 /2 (R is concave downward); d2 R/dt2 < 0 if Rs2 /2 < R < Rs2 (R is
concave upward); and d2 R/dt2 = 0 if Rc = Rs2 /2 (the inflexion point located within the interval available
for R). Namely this behaviour is reflected in Fig. 1 and corresponds to each component solution given
by Eq. (9). In principle, the lines of partial solution components in Fig. 1 are standard logistic growth
curves- It s not polite, we have to discuss, but we have added some remarks on their behaviour in the
revised version.
As for Fig. 3, green and black curves represent not the partial components Ri described by Eqs. (8)-
(9) but the functions Ii = t -1 dRi /dt, i.e. derivatives of the functions written in Eq. (9), or, equivalently,
proportional to the right-hand side of Eq. (8). They are positive but have the unique maximum corre-
sponding to the inflexion point (d2 R/dt2 = 0) of R located at Rc = Rs2 /2.
3) What is the epidemiological interpretation of Fig. 1 and the choice of parameters for the two
components? Since they have drastically different values, how realistic is it to expect that in the pop-
ulation the rates would be so different? Also, how can this be explained in terms of actual popula-
tion/epidemiological data for Russia, i.e. can the authors identify distinct population groups that would
fit such different patterns of disease transmission and recovery, or different bacterial strains?
Our approach is not based on the preliminary choice of the parameters, which are used for solving
a model with two competing species. On contrary, we start from the time curse of the actual registered
epidemiological data and fit them using the bi-logistic approximation. This choice of approximation is
based on a visual similarity of the data curve to the data representing some economic data like product
model replacements (Ref. [Meyer1999]), for which such fitting approach was developed. In the revised
version, we have added an additional discussion on the possible microbiological background of this simi-
larity referring the concept of “Evolution of microbial markets” [Werner2014]. Thus, the obtained values
are the results of data fitting procedures, not initial assumptions.
In the section “Discussion and Conclusion” we provide references to results of microbiological data
and their discussion, which show that there is an actual change in the prevailing strains of Micobacterium
tuberculosis in Russia during last 20 years. In particular, B0/W148 sub-line of the Beijing family is
characterized by a sufficient multi-drug resistance and aggressivity. This fact may explain larger values
of the parameters a2 and <U+03BA>2 in comparison with a1 and <U+03BA>1 characterising “old traditional” tuberculosis.
This reason for a drastic outbreak of tuberculosis, which occurred in 1990th, is also supported by the
laboratory studies of tuberculosis virulence (see a jump up between the second and the third stars in
Fig. 3, which denote the virulence determination data).
Minor (but important) points:
1) On p. 4, when introducing the model the authors should clearly state that k is the disease
transmission rate, and also explain what specifically t is, especially in the context of TB, where the
individuals can become chronically infected. Since normally in SIR models akin to (1)-(3) represents the
average duration of infection, how can it be determined by social reasons, as stated in l. 2 on p. 5?
The data used in the model (WHO and laboratory data) have been obtained for patients with tu-
berculosis for the first time detected, that usually is accompanied by the active bacterial excretion to
environment. Therefore, the main goal of the hospital’s treatment is to stop an excretion and then the
patient is transferred to out-patient treatment. Usually treatment lasts for 6 months, depending on the
severity of the process associated with the formation of areas of inflammation and destruction in the
lungs.
After cessation of bacterial excretion, the patient is either completely cured, in this case, complete
decomposition of the inflammation foci or fibrosis of the destruction areas occur in the lungs, or passes
into the state of the chronic process, which is characterised by the unclosed inflammation foci that can
result in the tuberculosis relapse. The relapse is not considered as first time detected, therefore in our
model such cases were attributed to deceased or survived.
Thus, the parameter t is attributed to the average duration of an active phase of tuberculosis.
We agree, that the description of k and t within one sentence was misleading. We reformulated it
distinguishing between k, the value of which is determined by the both social and microbiological reasons
(contact rate and infectiousness) and t , which is connected with the clinical picture. In addition, we have
discussed some references on the usage of SIR model and its generalizations as models of tuberculosis
[Roberts2007,Gomes2004] and premises of their parameter introduction.
2) p. 5, l. 19, strictly speaking, at the very start of an epidemic, the condition R(0) = 0 is exact, as
no-one has yet recovered from a disease, so it does not have to be additionally assumed. It is also worth
mentioning that the authors just divide equation (1) by equation (3) and then integrate the resulting
equation.
We have reformulated this part of the text accordingly to this suggestions.
3) p. 5, l. 34, the authors mention realistic medically observed values - it would be very helpful to
the readers if the authors could provide examples with references to support this statement.
This expansion of the exponential function into the Taylor series is dated back to the original work
by Kermack&McKendrick and confirmed, in particular, by the quantitative models of Bombay plague
[Kermack&McKendrick, Murray, p. 325] or Influenza Epidemic in an English Boarding School 1978
[Murray, p. 326]. We have added these references for guidance of readers.
4) p. 6, l. 7, the authors should either provide a reference for equation (9) or show in detail how
this expression is derived. Also, I see a major modelling issue here, as the authors treat each individual
infection or strain as if it were operating on its own population of susceptible individuals, while they
are, in fact, spreading concurrently in the same total population. So, the authors should provide a clear
explanation for how one can go from a single model (1)-(3) to a model with multiple subgroups. Should
the two terms in (9) under the sum be inside a bracket? Is there an extra bracket after ai?
Eq. (9) consists of a sum of components, each of which satisfies Eq. (8). As a result, each component
Ri given in Eq. (9) is a standard solution of the logistic equation. We have provided a reference and
reformulated the description to avoid misinterpretation, how these components were obtained.
As should be noted above, (see Major questions 1), we do not start from the modelling of spreading
multiple strains of infection within a population but use the direct bi-logistic fitting the real WHO
data. This procedure shows that these data can be represented as superposition of two logistic growth
functions with different parameters, each of which satisfies Eq. (8), which is a simplified consequence of
the system (1)–(3). Thus, such decomposition is the empiric fact already confirmed by the data. We
added some additional qualitative discussions on possible reasons, why different parts of population may
by susceptible to different strains and may be treated almost independently. We argue that tuberculosis
is a persistent infection widely represented in population but subjected to mutations. As one can see
from figures, which primarily present real WHO data and their fitting (not model data), the coexistence
time period between components is quite small, the picture is closer to the change of prevailing strain
that is qualitatively close to to the economical phenomenon of product replacement on markets, for which
LogLet tranform has been proposed, see Ref. [Meyer1999]. This correspondence is also close to the idea
of “Evolution of microbial markets” [Werner2014].
We thank Reviewer for the revealed misprint with the brackets, it is corrected.
5) p. 6, l. 13, what is R0 in the expression for 1 ? If it is the initial value of R(0), then shouldnt all
of them be equal to zero?
Yes, it is the initial value of R(0) but it should not be equal to zero within this approach due to
following reasons:
j
P
• we consider the fitted data computed as Rj = In , where In is the recorded number of primarily
n
infected at the time step n; therefore R(0) = R1 = I1 6= 0, i.e. due to the needs of fitting real
data, we do not know the exact starting time of outbreak and consider the first known moment
as the time, when the infection already exist for some (initially unknown) time that is reflected in
R(0) 6= 0;
• this assumption is confirmed by the plots of components in Fig. 1: green line corresponds to the
situation of almost saturated process, i.e. the beginning of this process started long time ago
(medically, it corresponds to the TB outbreak, which started with the variation of Beijing strated
in mid-1960);
• finally, the reduction of the SIR model (1)–(3) to the logistic equation is necessary adjusted to
R(0) 6= 0 (although it can by very small); however, this simplification is suitable for data fitting
with an unknown starting moment.
6) p. 6, lines 19-30, some further details are needed on what the Fisher-Pry transform does, and what
it means, so that the readers could follow the presentation without the need to refer to [18].
We have added some additional explanations.
7) p. 6, l. 48 - the formula is not clear: is the sum taken over n from 1 to j? Are Rj the same as Ri
used in (9)? If yes, then where does this new formula come from, as the total prevalence at any given
moment of time (i.e. the sum of all Ii ) is not the same as the sum of Ri of those who have already
recovered from strain i?
No, here j marks the discrete time moment tj with respect to the WHO data (this is why j used here,
and i for indexing components. We have added this explanation to avoid misunderstanding.
8) R0 should be defined there as <U+03BA>t , as the authors use it on p. 7, l. 42 without it being defined
beforehand.
We differ R0 = R(0) and R0 = kt by the font used.
9) p. 8, l. 21, R0 should be R0.
10) Choose one spelling: either bi-logistic or bilogistic, and use it consistently through- out the
manuscript.
11) It is worth reading the paper carefully one more time and running a spellcheck to correct numerous
typos, such as
p. 3, l . 59 non-monotonous character ¿ non-monotone
p. 4, l. 54 the a cumulative
p. 5, l. 11 averagely constant population size, remove averagely as there is no averaging in the model,
it already assumes a homogeneously mixed population of constant size p.
5, l. 36 origianal ¿ original
p. 7, l. 9 these these,
p. 7, l. 9 processes actually resembles ¿ should be resemble
p. 13, l. 20, model have been developed ¿ model... has been developed
We thank Reviewer for the attention to the text, all language and notation issues are corrected.
Appendix C
Referee report on a manuscript RSO-171033, “Bilogistic model
for disease dynamics caused by M. tuberculosis in Russia” by A.I.
Lavrova, E.B. Postnikov, O.A. Manicheva, B.I. Vishnevsky
The authors have done a good job at addressing my earlier comments. Overall, the paper
has been significantly improved, and I am happy to recommend publication, provided the
following minor issues are addressed.
1) The solution to logistic equation (8), which is given as an un-numbered equation in the
middle of p. 11, should be moved up to p. 10 straight after equation (8) to make it clear
that this is the solution of that equation.
2) On p. 13, the authors use the basic reproduction numbers as R0 = <U+03BA>t but actually these
are still not defined beforehand. So, I suggest to explicitly define basic reproduction numbers
to make it clear to the readers where those expressions come from. Also, in the top line on
p. 14, there is some other R0 which should also be defined (or, it could be a typo, so that it
was meant to be R0 ).
3) The references should be carefully reviewed and corrected. [4] is missing the journal name;
in [11] there are just two authors: R.M. Anderson and R.M. May; some of journal names
are given in full, while others are abbreviated.
1
Appendix D
Dear Editor,
We thank Reviewer for the positive response and suggestions for improving the manuscript. All
of them are taken into account:
1) The solution of the logistic equation is moved up closer to the equation (8) and numbered.
2) The definition and notation for the basic reproduction number is added to the part of Model
and Method sections, where all basic definitions are given; the typo – missed index 0 – is
corrected.
3) The references are corrected, all journal names are abbreviated.
Sincerely yours,
Authors
Society Open
