Sexual phenotype drives variation in endocrine responses
to social challenge in a quasi-clonal animal
Cheng-Yu Li, Shu-Ping Huang, Mark Garcia, Adam Fuller, Yuying Hsu and Ryan L. Earley
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180002.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180002
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 26 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180002.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors have satisfactorily addressed the majority of my concerns; I think it is a much
stronger paper now. I have a few additional comments to further improve clarity and/or correct
omissions.
Line 101 – insert "relatively" before "little"
120 – insert comma after "after"
148 – There were no common garden conditions described in the previous section. Was a
paragraph accidentally omitted?
150-152 – was there any anesthesia used while the fish were being measured?
153 – Was there any difference between the lines?
155 – insert "and" before "then", replace "breaking" with "cutting", as I assume scissors were used
to do this.
160 – start new paragraph at "On Day 2…"
176 – at least provide the duration of time and volume of water here.
178-180 – simply provide the mean and range for the individual intra-assay variations. Also,
provide the actual hormone name before each abbreviation.
189 – explain what "processed" means
190 – "individuals" should be "an individual"
201, 207, 209, 232, 271 – "hormones" should be "hormone levels"
209 – insert "level" after "hormone"
211 – "effect" should be "correlation", "on" should be "with"
215 – "Hormone responses" needs to be defined here at first use of the term. Move up the
definition from lines 230-232.
230 – "were represented as" should be "represent"
331 – should read "challenge between hermaphrodites and secondary males that we revealed in
our study" to keep the relevant parts of the sentence together.
342 – start new paragraph here
350 – should be "provided"
359 – start new paragraph at "Similar phenomena…"
366 – should be "Our results suggest…"
367 – "was" should be "is"
369-370 – start second sentence at "however"
Table 1 – legend should explain hormone abbreviations. F is likely to be particularly cryptic to
many readers.
All figures – delete the tick marks on the x-axis – they add unnecessary visual clutter.
Fig 1 – Write out GSI and testosterone in legend. Legend should explain hormone abbreviations.
Add sample sizes.
Fig 2 – delete key at top of panel B because it is unnecessary. Add sample sizes.
Fig 3 - Add sample sizes. Add units to y-axis.
Fig 4 - Add units to y-axis. The two group names can be written out – there is enough space.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180002)
14-Feb-2018
Dear Mr Li
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180002 entitled
"Sexual phenotype drives variation in endocrine responses to social challenge in a clonal animal"
has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180002
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
4
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Feb-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Kristina Sefc (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have satisfactorily addressed the majority of my concerns; I think it is a much
stronger paper now. I have a few additional comments to further improve clarity and/or correct
omissions.
Line 101 – insert "relatively" before "little"
120 – insert comma after "after"
148 – There were no common garden conditions described in the previous section. Was a
paragraph accidentally omitted?
150-152 – was there any anesthesia used while the fish were being measured?
153 – Was there any difference between the lines?
155 – insert "and" before "then", replace "breaking" with "cutting", as I assume scissors were used
to do this.
6
160 – start new paragraph at "On Day 2…"
176 – at least provide the duration of time and volume of water here.
178-180 – simply provide the mean and range for the individual intra-assay variations. Also,
provide the actual hormone name before each abbreviation.
189 – explain what "processed" means
190 – "individuals" should be "an individual"
201, 207, 209, 232, 271 – "hormones" should be "hormone levels"
209 – insert "level" after "hormone"
211 – "effect" should be "correlation", "on" should be "with"
215 – "Hormone responses" needs to be defined here at first use of the term. Move up the
definition from lines 230-232.
230 – "were represented as" should be "represent"
331 – should read "challenge between hermaphrodites and secondary males that we revealed in
our study" to keep the relevant parts of the sentence together.
342 – start new paragraph here
350 – should be "provided"
359 – start new paragraph at "Similar phenomena…"
366 – should be "Our results suggest…"
367 – "was" should be "is"
369-370 – start second sentence at "however"
Table 1 – legend should explain hormone abbreviations. F is likely to be particularly cryptic to
many readers.
All figures – delete the tick marks on the x-axis – they add unnecessary visual clutter.
Fig 1 – Write out GSI and testosterone in legend. Legend should explain hormone abbreviations.
Add sample sizes.
Fig 2 – delete key at top of panel B because it is unnecessary. Add sample sizes.
Fig 3 - Add sample sizes. Add units to y-axis.
Fig 4 - Add units to y-axis. The two group names can be written out – there is enough space.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180002)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180002.R1)
26-Feb-2018
Dear Mr Li,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Sexual phenotype drives variation in
endocrine responses to social challenge in a quasi-clonal animal" is now accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
7
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
ase find below the comments followed by the author responses (in bold) to each reviewers’ question.
Response to Editor:
lease note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included…
ponse: We have included the complete end statements in the revision. Please see line 361-412
Responses to Reviewer:
101 – insert "relatively" before "little"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 95.
– insert comma after "after"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 114.
– There were no common garden conditions described in the previous section. Was a paragraph
dentally omitted?
ponse: The common garden conditions were described in the paragraph of “Study organism”;
se see line 124-133.
-152 – was there any anesthesia used while the fish were being measured?
ponse: Fish was taken out of the maintenance container and transferred to a transparent plastic
with little water, and then the standard length was measured with calipers. In this standard protocol,
spent less than 10 seconds (on average) measuring the length of fish, so there was no anesthesia
d during the measurements. Mangrove rivulus can survive out of water for more than a month;
efore, being out of water for such a short period time should not result in any negative impacts on
avior and physiology. We add the description of the method in the revision. Please see line 145-146.
– Was there any difference between the lines?
ponse: The standard length of RHL was significantly larger than DAN2K (RHL: 28.73±0.03 mm;
N2K: 27.37±0.02 mm; t142 = 4.38, p < 0.001). This information was added in the revision. Please see
149-151.
– insert "and" before "then", replace "breaking" with "cutting", as I assume scissors were used to do this.
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 152-153.
– start new paragraph at "On Day 2…"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 158.
– at least provide the duration of time and volume of water here.
ponse: The duration of time and volume of water which was used in hormone collection has been
ed in the revision. Please see line 173-174.
-180 – simply provide the mean and range for the individual intra-assay variations. Also, provide the actual
mone name before each abbreviation.
ponse: This has been revised in the revision, and the actual hormone names were also added in
paragraph. Please see line 177-181.
– explain what "processed" means
ponse: This sentence has been changed to “…If fish did not engage in a contest, they were
sferred to hormone collection beakers after 20 minutes…” Please see line 188-189.
– "individuals" should be "an individual"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 191.
, 207, 209, 232, 271 – "hormones" should be "hormone levels"
ponse: All these “hormones” have been changed to “hormone levels” in the revision.
– insert "level" after "hormone"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision.
– "effect" should be "correlation", "on" should be "with"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 212-213.
– "Hormone responses" needs to be defined here at first use of the term. Move up the definition from lines
-232.
ponse: The definition of “hormone response” has been moved to line 217-218, at first use of the
.
– "were represented as" should be "represent"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 217-218.
– should read "challenge between hermaphrodites and secondary males that we revealed in our study" to
p the relevant parts of the sentence together.
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 333-334.
– start new paragraph here
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 345.
– should be "provided"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 355.
– start new paragraph at "Similar phenomena…"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 365.
– should be "Our results suggest…"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 372.
– "was" should be "is"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 374.
-370 – start second sentence at "however"
ponse: This has been changed in the revision. Please see line 375.
e 1 – legend should explain hormone abbreviations. F is likely to be particularly cryptic to many readers.
ponse: We have added the explanation for each hormone abbreviation. Please see line 620-621.
igures – delete the tick marks on the x-axis – they add unnecessary visual clutter.
ponse: We have deleted the tick marks on the x-axis in all figures.
1 – Write out GSI and testosterone in legend. Legend should explain hormone abbreviations. Add sample
s.
2 – delete key at top of panel B because it is unnecessary. Add sample sizes.
3 - Add sample sizes. Add units to y-axis.
4 - Add units to y-axis. The two group names can be written out – there is enough space.
ponse: We have revised all figures and legends according to the reviewer’s comments. Please see
figures and line 601-604, 607-08, 610-612 and 615-616.
Society Open
