Predicting plant attractiveness to pollinators with passive
crowdsourcing
Christie A. Bahlai and Douglas A. Landis
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150677.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150677
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 May 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150677.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ignasi Bartomeus)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
They have all data and code in a repository in github. This is great for accesing it and very
useful, but github is not permanent as far as I know, because you can delete the repo at any time.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
A copy can be achieved as sup mat or a doi can be associated with the github repo, making it
permanent.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I reviewed the present manuscript once for Axios review. In this new version I find that the
authors has addressed all my questions appropriately and I don’t have any major concern. I just
have a few minor suggestions.
line 128: “Beneficial predatory insects” comes to a surprise here, given the focus on pollinators. I
would use “bee-mimic flower flies” instead here. In 137 you already explain the study inn more
detail, and the focus on beneficial predators.
139: See Rader et al. 2015 PNAS for a recent review on the role of other insects as pollinators:
http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2015/11/24/1517092112.long
153-154: Not clear how this initial evaluation is done. What “more relevant” means? You can
probably explain if it was due to number of photos with the right plant? or photos with insects?
159: Similar point. You can define what a relevant result is more precisely.
184: maybe “experiments” is not wrong but may be confusing. Maybe “procedure” sounds
better?
229-232: This point can be deleted, as the paragraph is already rather long and do not adds much
to it.
243-247: Same here. This last part is repetitive and do not add much, I would delete it.
265: “as well as”?
Best,
Ignasi Bartomeus
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150677)
21-Apr-2016
Dear Dr Bahlai
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150677 entitled
"Predicting Plant Attractiveness to Pollinators with Passive Crowdsourcing" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150677
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
4
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 30-Apr-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
5
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I reviewed the present manuscript once for Axios review. In this new version I find that the
authors has addressed all my questions appropriately and I don’t have any major concern. I just
have a few minor suggestions.
line 128: “Beneficial predatory insects” comes to a surprise here, given the focus on pollinators. I
would use “bee-mimic flower flies” instead here. In 137 you already explain the study inn more
detail, and the focus on beneficial predators.
139: See Rader et al. 2015 PNAS for a recent review on the role of other insects as pollinators:
http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2015/11/24/1517092112.long
153-154: Not clear how this initial evaluation is done. What “more relevant” means? You can
probably explain if it was due to number of photos with the right plant? or photos with insects?
159: Similar point. You can define what a relevant result is more precisely.
184: maybe “experiments” is not wrong but may be confusing. Maybe “procedure” sounds
better?
229-232: This point can be deleted, as the paragraph is already rather long and do not adds much
to it.
243-247: Same here. This last part is repetitive and do not add much, I would delete it.
265: “as well as”?
Best,
Ignasi Bartomeus
Society Open
