Grazer responses to variable macroalgal resource
conditions facilitate habitat structuring
Gavin M. Rishworth, Renzo Perissinotto, Matthew S. Bird and Noémie Pelletier
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171428.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171428
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171428.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Elena Gorokhova)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See file attached (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Review of RSOS-171428
This study presents data on resource utilization from an interesting system; living stromatholite
pools bordering the ocean in South Africa. The authors use stable isotopes to assess the foraging
responses of the metazoan community to changing macroalgal resource conditions. The overall
prediction was that the metazoan trophic (isotopic) niche under bleached macroalgal resource
conditions (summer) would reflect a greater foraging reliance on other non-macroalgal resources,
compared to the winter situation. Non-stromatolite items would remain the predominant overall
dietary contributor. The dietary composition of all dominant consumer groups were
determined using isotope mixing models and compared between systems of varying state of
macroalage condition using multivariate generalized linear models. The results support the
expectation that generalist feeding is more common in summer, and also that stromatolite-related
resources were included in the diet during summer – with consequences for stromatholite
formation.
Overall I found the manuscript well written and technically sound, but my spontaneous reaction
was that there are surprisingly few details on the metazoan community (ranging oligochaetes to
fish). I kept looking at figure S2 to try to understand which taxa were present at the different
sites; in the manuscript species were occasionally metnioned but rarely with assignment to
taxonomic group or feeding group. Information on number of species, species diversity and total
abundance for each of the three sites could perhaps have been useful for interpretations of results
of the community isotope niches (SEA)?
3
Apart from this my main issue with the paper is lack of details on the statistical analyses in
method. Also, the results section could be structured with sub-headings to help the reader follow
the results. This manuscript builds on another published study where the same sites and species
were analysed during winter (this study during summer), and which used similar data analyses
and statistical approaches. I would prefer if the authors would give some more details on the
statistical analyses here rather than just referring to the previous study (e.g. line 195; “The SI
signatures of all resources were compared using a linear mixed effects (LMM) approach (for
further details see [28])”. Moreover, the multivariate GLM approach (not used in the previous
study) is also very briefly explained; more details would have been helpful to better understand
the results table 1 and also the very complex Figure 3. The GLS method is not mentioned at all in
the manuscript, there is a reference to Table S2 with GLS results in supplementary material.
A few specific comments on the occasional name-dropping of species.
Line 243: “The higher apparent trophic position of C. cf. keiskama compared to other primary
consumers (Figure S2) prompted the inclusion of malacostracans as a further dietary source”
Malacostracans have not previously been introduced – what kind of organism is this? Same for C
cf kesikama.
Line 261: Species such as Melita zeylanica (Figure 3d) and C. cf. keiskama (Figure 3h), that
almost exclusively relied on pool macroalgae during winter, shifted their diets to
predominantly pool microalgae and stromatolite related material in summer.
Again, would be nice with some overall categorsiation of what kind of species they are.
Line 272: Malacostracans were not an important resource for consumers, despite some (e.g. C. cf.
keiskama) suggesting an omnivorous trophic guild (Figure S2, Figure 3).
Something is strange with this sentence to me (not being a native english-speaker though).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171428)
28-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Rishworth,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Grazer responses to variable macroalgal resource conditions
facilitate habitat structuring") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 21-Dec-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
4
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171428
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Punidan Jeyasingh (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Punidan Jeyasingh):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
This is an interesting study on a poorly studied, albeit important issue/system. Both expert
reviewers were also enthusiastic about this work. Nevertheless, they have also raised substantial
issues that need to be clearly addressed. I won't repeat all their points here, but generally the
comments are calling for more information on the study system, data sources, and analytical
methods. With much gratitude to the reviewers, I invite the authors to revise their manuscript.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See file attached
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of RSOS-171428
This study presents data on resource utilization from an interesting system; living stromatholite
pools bordering the ocean in South Africa. The authors use stable isotopes to assess the foraging
responses of the metazoan community to changing macroalgal resource conditions. The overall
prediction was that the metazoan trophic (isotopic) niche under bleached macroalgal resource
conditions (summer) would reflect a greater foraging reliance on other non-macroalgal resources,
compared to the winter situation. Non-stromatolite items would remain the predominant overall
dietary contributor. The dietary composition of all dominant consumer groups were
determined using isotope mixing models and compared between systems of varying state of
macroalage condition using multivariate generalized linear models. The results support the
expectation that generalist feeding is more common in summer, and also that stromatolite-related
6
resources were included in the diet during summer – with consequences for stromatholite
formation.
Overall I found the manuscript well written and technically sound, but my spontaneous reaction
was that there are surprisingly few details on the metazoan community (ranging oligochaetes to
fish). I kept looking at figure S2 to try to understand which taxa were present at the different
sites; in the manuscript species were occasionally metnioned but rarely with assignment to
taxonomic group or feeding group. Information on number of species, species diversity and total
abundance for each of the three sites could perhaps have been useful for interpretations of results
of the community isotope niches (SEA)?
Apart from this my main issue with the paper is lack of details on the statistical analyses in
method. Also, the results section could be structured with sub-headings to help the reader follow
the results. This manuscript builds on another published study where the same sites and species
were analysed during winter (this study during summer), and which used similar data analyses
and statistical approaches. I would prefer if the authors would give some more details on the
statistical analyses here rather than just referring to the previous study (e.g. line 195; “The SI
signatures of all resources were compared using a linear mixed effects (LMM) approach (for
further details see [28])”. Moreover, the multivariate GLM approach (not used in the previous
study) is also very briefly explained; more details would have been helpful to better understand
the results table 1 and also the very complex Figure 3. The GLS method is not mentioned at all in
the manuscript, there is a reference to Table S2 with GLS results in supplementary material.
A few specific comments on the occasional name-dropping of species.
Line 243: “The higher apparent trophic position of C. cf. keiskama compared to other primary
consumers (Figure S2) prompted the inclusion of malacostracans as a further dietary source”
Malacostracans have not previously been introduced – what kind of organism is this? Same for C
cf kesikama.
Line 261: Species such as Melita zeylanica (Figure 3d) and C. cf. keiskama (Figure 3h), that
almost exclusively relied on pool macroalgae during winter, shifted their diets to
predominantly pool microalgae and stromatolite related material in summer.
Again, would be nice with some overall categorsiation of what kind of species they are.
Line 272: Malacostracans were not an important resource for consumers, despite some (e.g. C. cf.
keiskama) suggesting an omnivorous trophic guild (Figure S2, Figure 3).
Something is strange with this sentence to me (not being a native english-speaker though).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171428)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171428.R1)
07-Dec-2017
Dear Dr Rishworth,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Grazer responses to variable
macroalgal resource conditions facilitate habitat structuring" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
7
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Punidan Jeyasingh (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
I thank the authors for addressing all reviewer concerns. I believe this version is much improved,
and am happy to recommend publication. Please be sure to double-check the figures. The legend
boxes (in Fig. 2 and 3) are partially obscuring the words, and the font size of the axes in Fig. 3
might be hard to read (depending on how large the typeset version is).
Appendix A
This is a study assessing changes in dietary composition of grazer communities following a seasonal
change in the characteristics of mactoalgae, their main food-source (macroalgae). The study was
conducted in the living stromatolite pools and using stable isotope mixing models to derive the
dietary change. The authors concluded that following bleaching in summer, metazoan consumers
shifted their diet from predominantly macroalgae to being generalists. The authors also concluded
that higher reliance on microalgae may affect stromatolite layering process which responds to
microalgal growth or grazing conditions. The study uses an interesting model system and the
conclusions are most likely valid. The paper is well-written; however, I have a few comments that
need to be addressed before the manuscript can be accepted for publication.
General comments
First, the sampling effort is very unclear for all of the sample types collected during the study. Some
of the sample numbers can be deduced from the Supplementary material, but it is still far from clear.
As a result, the results of the statistical models and comparison are difficult to judge.
Second, the study period/area are very limited. Any evidence for this pattern to occur in other
systems?
Third, all evidence for the diet composition is coming exclusively from SIA. It is very good that the
fractionation uncertainty is considered, but given that findings indicate a significant change in
nutritional composition of algal food, how certain can it be that the isotopic niche of the animals
does not respond to changes in the growth and metabolic status of the animals and not to the diet
isotopic composition as such (see, for example, Gorokhova 2017, Individual growth as a non-dietary
determinant of the isotopic niche metrics. Methods in Ecology and Evolution)? The same arguments
can be used for questioning the adequacy of SEA-based conclusions for the dietary divergence of the
test animals exposed to stressful condition due to, e.g. temperature.
Forth, it seems that half of the data are published elsewhere and the authors are simply referring to
the other publication. It is not possible for a reader to decide what data from that publication were
used and how the sampling effort compares between the studies. Therefore, the entire design of the
present study becomes very unclear.
Finally, the macrofaunal communities, macroalgae and stromatolites co-evolved in this system and it
is, perhaps, relevant to ask whether seasonal variability in consumption of microalgae is an essential
part of the annual microalgal productivity in this system? Some statements in the Discussion
regarding anthropogenic forces (like 15N-inflow) modulating the stromatolite responses would also
need elaboration.
Specific comments
Lines 79-81: Introduce main drivers of bleaching (other than salinity).
Lines 85-86: It also requires a basic understanding of the growth responses.
Lines 88-91: What is known about the diet switch in metazoans inhabiting similar environments with
no stromatolites?
Lines 107-108: Were samples collected only in February 2016? Or February 2015 (Supplementary)?
What was exactly the sampling design and what “winter” systems were included? It is not sufficient
to refer to the study of Rishworth et al. 2017, all relevant data are needed within the present study
so that a reader can understand what systems are being compared.
Line 180: Is this SD for d13C and d15N or total C% and N%. Specify and provide precision for both the
isotopic and elemental measurements.
Lines 194-195: Specify how exactly the resource components were selected and justify the choice.
Lines 236-238: The differences are interesting and have implications for the source analysis; please,
elaborate in the Discussion on the possible sources of these differences.
Lines 234-246: The inclusion of malacostracans as a source is not adequately justified. Please, either
provide more evidence, or discuss possible implications of the misidentification of the diet sources
for this species.
Lines 300+: Please, discuss possible implications for the bias in the isotopic niche analysis due to the
difference in growth status that were not assessed.
Line 304: Fluctuating resource conditions may also result in fluctuating growth conditions and
frequent diet switch. The SIA-derived diets are only applicable for the systems that are in the isotopic
equilibrium, which means that under fluctuating resources, the consumers will more likely remain in
the non-equilibrated state. Please, elaborate, how using the isotopic signatures of such consumers
this would affect the conclusions.
Lines 336-338: The 15N-enrichment can also contribute to the diet calculations if fractionation is
affected or if there is a preferential routing of compounds that are rich in anthropogenic N. Please,
elaborate how this may affect the diet estimates at this site.
pendix B
05 December 2017
Editors,
k you very much for your decision on our manuscript (“Grazer responses to variable macroalgal resource
tions facilitate habitat structuring”, authored by G.M. Rishworth, R. Perissinotto, M.S. Bird and N. Pelletier:
-171428), following peer review for possible publication in Royal Society Open Science. The comments by the
ial team and reviewers have been very helpful to streamline and strengthen our paper, and we really do
ciate them.
e find attached to this submission our ‘Manuscript’, which shows a clean version of the document with all
es implemented, as well as the ‘Manuscript – tracked changes’, which marks all of the changes that we have
Below this letter there is also a point-form response to each of the comments or queries that we addressed.
ope that you find these revisions satisfactory and we look forward to receiving your feedback.
sincerely,
Rishworth
ctoral Fellow – Claude Leon Foundation
RF Research Chair in Shallow Water Ecosystems
n Mandela University
lizabeth
Africa
: gavin.rishworth@mandela.ac.za
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS’ COMMENTS
Manuscript No.: RSOS-171428
Title: "Grazer responses to variable macroalgal resource conditions facilitate habitat
structuring"
Authors: G.M. Rishworth*, R. Perissinotto, M.S. Bird and N. Pelletier
*Corresponding author: gavin.rishworth@gmail.com
NOTE: Original Reviewer/Editor’s comments are reported in bold and quotation marks.
Authors’ responses are in normal font. Citations quoted are listed within the main manuscript,
unless otherwise indicated (Line number referrals relate to the track-changed manuscript)
Editor
“This is an interesting study on a poorly studied, albeit important issue/system. Both
expert reviewers were also enthusiastic about this work. Nevertheless, they have also
raised substantial issues that need to be clearly addressed. I won't repeat all their points
here, but generally the comments are calling for more information on the study system,
data sources, and analytical methods. With much gratitude to the reviewers, I invite the
authors to revise their manuscript.”
Thank you for this decision. We have considered all of the reviewers’ comments and have
implemented their suggested changes where applicable to improve the manuscript, as
outlined below.
Reviewer: 1
“This is a study assessing changes in dietary composition of grazer communities
following a seasonal change in the characteristics of macroalgae, their main food-source
(macroalgae). The study was conducted in the living stromatolite pools and using stable
isotope mixing models to derive the dietary change. The authors concluded that
following bleaching in summer, metazoan consumers shifted their diet from
predominantly macroalgae to being generalists. The authors also concluded that higher
reliance on microalgae may affect stromatolite layering process which responds to
microalgal growth or grazing conditions. The study uses an interesting model system
and the conclusions are most likely valid. The paper is well-written; however, I have a
few comments that need to be addressed before the manuscript can be accepted for
publication.”
Thank you for this positive impression of our manuscript. All comments have been attended
to, as implemented below.
“General comments
First, the sampling effort is very unclear for all of the sample types collected during the
study. Some of the sample numbers can be deduced from the Supplementary material,
but it is still far from clear. As a result, the results of the statistical models and
comparison are difficult to judge.”
We apologise for the vagueness of our sample effort description. This has now been included
clearly in the “Materials and methods” (lines 140-143).
“Second, the study period/area are very limited. Any evidence for this pattern to occur
in other systems?”
Unfortunately these systems have been very poorly studied globally, not least of all because
of their scarcity. However, we feel that our multi-site comparison (three isolated systems)
provide sufficient evidence to support the findings of this study, but following the reviewer’s
correct concern we have highlighted the need for future work to be done to further support
these observations (lines 436-441). Briefly, we have also included reference to studies on
other non-stromatolite systems where similar patterns related to seasonal resource availability
might be relevant (e.g. Correa & Winemiller 2014).
“Third, all evidence for the diet composition is coming exclusively from SIA. It is very
good that the fractionation uncertainty is considered, but given that findings indicate a
significant change in nutritional composition of algal food, how certain can it be that the
isotopic niche of the animals does not respond to changes in the growth and metabolic
status of the animals and not to the diet isotopic composition as such (see, for example,
Gorokhova 2017, Individual growth as a non-dietary determinant of the isotopic niche
metrics. Methods in Ecology and Evolution)? The same arguments can be used for
questioning the adequacy of SEA-based conclusions for the dietary divergence of the
test animals exposed to stressful condition due to, e.g. temperature.”
We thank the reviewer for pointing this out and have critically reviewed the paper that they
refer to. We had briefly referred to the likely feature of metazoan dietary choices being driven
by seasonal metabolic requirements in the earlier draft (see lines 341-351). However, the
argument that the reviewer proposes was not brought across in that discussion and we have
therefore revised this. Certainly metazoan metabolic requirements, especially those that are
stress-driven, could drive seasonal resource selection shifts, as opposed to exclusively being
driven by resource quality. Nonetheless, resource quality remains an important feature of the
habitat in question and we therefore feel that the dietary, isotopic response observed is a
function of this in summer (based on population abundance, which is seasonally consistent,
stress is assumed to be minimal for the populations in these habitats). Following the
reviewer’s advice we have now been cautious to highlight that seasonal, stress-related
conditions may contribute to the dietary diversification, in addition to the resource conditions
discussed, but that these should be better quantified in future studies (lines 351-362).
“Forth, it seems that half of the data are published elsewhere and the authors are
simply referring to the other publication. It is not possible for a reader to decide what
data from that publication were used and how the sampling effort compares between
the studies. Therefore, the entire design of the present study becomes very unclear.”
We apologise for this lack of clarity. Indeed some of the data were derived from a previous
study (Rishworth et al., 2017 Scientific Reports). We have now been careful to explicitly state
where this was the case and also to be clear in the methods how the two studies differed (lines
111-113, 227-229). We have also expanded the results where appropriate to reflect this (e.g.
lines 234-246).
“Finally, the macrofaunal communities, macroalgae and stromatolites co-evolved in this
system and it is, perhaps, relevant to ask whether seasonal variability in consumption of
microalgae is an essential part of the annual microalgal productivity in this system?
Some statements in the Discussion regarding anthropogenic forces (like 15N-inflow)
modulating the stromatolite responses would also need elaboration.”
Thank you for this comment; it indeed introduces an interesting dynamic and discussion
about co-evolution in this ecosystem. We have now included referral to these points in our
Discussion (lines 414-420).
“Specific comments
Lines 79-81: Introduce main drivers of bleaching (other than salinity).”
Some of the drivers of macroalgal bleaching are now introduced in the section to which the
reviewer refers, rather than only later in the Discussion (lines 80-81).
“Lines 85-86: It also requires a basic understanding of the growth responses.”
This sentence has been rephrased to suggest that growth responses, intrinsic to the
consumers, also play a role (lines 87-89).
“Lines 88-91: What is known about the diet switch in metazoans inhabiting similar
environments with no stromatolites?”
We did not encounter any studies in similar habitats where this has occurred which were
directly comparable. However, a mention of general animal responses to shifts in resource
condition has now been made briefly (lines 93-95, 436-441).
“Lines 107-108: Were samples collected only in February 2016? Or February 2015
(Supplementary)? What was exactly the sampling design and what “winter” systems
were included? It is not sufficient to refer to the study of Rishworth et al. 2017, all
relevant data are needed within the present study so that a reader can understand what
systems are being compared.”
We apologise for this lack of clarity. Indeed samples were also collected during the winter of
2015 (Rishworth et al., 2017 Scientific Reports) and the details of this are now also included
in the Materials and methods (lines 111-113, 227-229).
“Line 180: Is this SD for d13C and d15N or total C% and N%. Specify and provide
precision for both the isotopic and elemental measurements.”
“C and N” has now been replaced with “d13C and d15N” to more-correctly define the data
associated with the precision margins (line 189).
“Lines 194-195: Specify how exactly the resource components were selected and justify
the choice.”
Further details are now provided on how the resource components were selected, as well as
the justification based on published taxon-specific accounts (lines 203-207).
“Lines 236-238: The differences are interesting and have implications for the source
analysis; please, elaborate in the Discussion on the possible sources of these
differences.”
Brief mention and explanation is now made in the Discussion of the possible causes or
implications of this dietary variability (lines 387-390).
“Lines 234-246: The inclusion of malacostracans as a source is not adequately justified.
Please, either provide more evidence, or discuss possible implications of the
misidentification of the diet sources for this species.”
Further justification (Fauchald and Jumars, 1979) for the inclusion of malacostracans as a
dietary source, especially given the known omnivorous feeding ecology of Composetia cf.
keiskama, as well as an explanation of how this inclusion affects the interpretation of the
results presented in Rishworth et al. (2017 Scientific Reports) is now provided (lines 278-
291).
“Lines 300+: Please, discuss possible implications for the bias in the isotopic niche
analysis due to the difference in growth status that were not assessed.”
This comment follows on from two of the comments highlighted above. In response, the
possible effect of seasonality or metabolic requirements on dietary resources, and the
consumers’ needs thereof, is now discussed in further detail in the manuscript (lines 351-
365).
“Line 304: Fluctuating resource conditions may also result in fluctuating growth
conditions and frequent diet switch. The SIA-derived diets are only applicable for the
systems that are in the isotopic equilibrium, which means that under fluctuating
resources, the consumers will more likely remain in the non-equilibrated state. Please,
elaborate, how using the isotopic signatures of such consumers this would affect the
conclusions.”
We are grateful to the reviewer for pointing out this interesting phenomenon and, in addition
to our response in the above comment (lines 351-362), have now elaborated on this
potentially-confounding effect on SIA signatures and the implications thereof for our study
(lines 362-365).
“Lines 336-338: The 15N-enrichment can also contribute to the diet calculations if
fractionation is affected or if there is a preferential routing of compounds that are rich
in anthropogenic N. Please, elaborate how this may affect the diet estimates at this site.”
We completely agree with this comment and have now highlighted this effect in the
discussion (lines 396-400).
Reviewer: 2
“This study presents data on resource utilization from an interesting system; living
stromatolite pools bordering the ocean in South Africa. The authors use stable isotopes
to assess the foraging responses of the metazoan community to changing macroalgal
resource conditions. The overall prediction was that the metazoan trophic (isotopic)
niche under bleached macroalgal resource conditions (summer) would reflect a greater
foraging reliance on other non-macroalgal resources, compared to the winter situation.
Non-stromatolite items would remain the predominant overall dietary contributor. The
dietary composition of all dominant consumer groups were determined using isotope
mixing models and compared between systems of varying state of macroalgae condition
using multivariate generalized linear models. The results support the expectation that
generalist feeding is more common in summer, and also that stromatolite-related
resources were included in the diet during summer – with consequences for stromatolite
formation.
Overall I found the manuscript well written and technically sound, but my spontaneous
reaction was that there are surprisingly few details on the metazoan community
(ranging oligochaetes to fish). I kept looking at figure S2 to try to understand which
taxa were present at the different sites; in the manuscript species were occasionally
mentioned but rarely with assignment to taxonomic group or feeding group.
Information on number of species, species diversity and total abundance for each of the
three sites could perhaps have been useful for interpretations of results of the
community isotope niches (SEA)?”
Thank you to this reviewer for their interest and positivity towards our manuscript. We have
addressed all of their concerns outlined below, especially with regards to greater detail of the
sampled community composition, abundance and diversity (now presented in Table S2).
“Apart from this my main issue with the paper is lack of details on the statistical
analyses in method.”
We appreciate that both reviewers have pointed this out and have ensured to elaborate further
on the methods where appropriate, rather than only referring to published studies (e.g. lines
208-211 and 221-229).
“Also, the results section could be structured with sub-headings to help the reader
follow the results.”
The results section is now structured with sub-headings.
“This manuscript builds on another published study where the same sites and species
were analysed during winter (this study during summer), and which used similar data
analyses and statistical approaches. I would prefer if the authors would give some more
details on the statistical analyses here rather than just referring to the previous study
(e.g. line 195; “The SI signatures of all resources were compared using a linear mixed
effects (LMM) approach (for further details see [28])”.”
This instance of the description of statistical analysis has been elaborated upon (lines 207-
211), as well as other occasions where the methods could have been better described rather
than only referring to published accounts where the same methods were implemented (e.g.
lines 221-225).
“Moreover, the multivariate GLM approach (not used in the previous study) is also
very briefly explained; more details would have been helpful to better understand the
results table 1 and also the very complex Figure 3.”
More details are now provided to explain the multivariate GLM approach (lines 221-225).
“The GLS method is not mentioned at all in the manuscript, there is a reference to
Table S2 with GLS results in supplementary material.”
We apologise for this oversight and the instance in the Materials and methods where the
LMM approach is described now includes mention of the GLS model, as it should have been
done from the onset (line 208).
“A few specific comments on the occasional name-dropping of species.
Line 243: “The higher apparent trophic position of C. cf. keiskama compared to other
primary consumers (Figure S2) prompted the inclusion of malacostracans as a further
dietary source”. Malacostracans have not previously been introduced – what kind of
organism is this? Same for C cf kesikama.”
In this instance, and on other occasions where species or taxa are mentioned for the first time,
greater details are provided regarding their taxonomy (lines 278-282). Additionally, a
summary table of the primary consumer taxa sampled, the seasons when they were of
sufficient abundance to be collected, as well as a previously-published metric of their overall
abundance within the main pool stromatolite matrix, is now also provided in the
Supplementary Material (Table S2), as a response to this reviewer’s overall comment for the
manuscript.
“Line 261: Species such as Melita zeylanica (Figure 3d) and C. cf. keiskama (Figure 3h),
that almost exclusively relied on pool macroalgae during winter, shifted their diets to
predominantly pool microalgae and stromatolite related material in summer. Again,
would be nice with some overall categorsiation of what kind of species they are.”
In line with the comment above, further taxonomic detail has been provided for these and
other species on first mention (in this case, line 302).
“Line 272: Malacostracans were not an important resource for consumers, despite some
(e.g. C. cf. keiskama) suggesting an omnivorous trophic guild (Figure S2, Figure 3).
Something is strange with this sentence to me (not being a native english-speaker
though).”
We apologise for the lack of clarity here; this sentence has now been revised (lines 312-313).
Society Open
