Preparation and characterization of fast-curing powder
epoxy adhesive at middle temperature
Jie Xu, Jiayao Yang, Xiaohuan Liu, Hengxu Wang, Jingjie Zhang and Shenyuan Fu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180566.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180566
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 28 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180566.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This article reported on the fast-curing powder epoxy adhesive prepared by melt blending
method with Bisphenol A epoxy resin (E-20), Hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA) and 2-
methylimidazole (2-MI). The authors have done an extensive study on this all important subject.
If authors add some results and discussion about the adhesive properties, the paper will be
better.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Yan Meng)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper describes the use of dual catalysts to trigger homopolymerization of E20. The paper is
interesting; however, several issues have to be addressed before its publication. My comments
and suggesting are as follows.
(1) Homopolymerization of epoxide can be achieved either by catalyzed anionic or cationic
polymerization. Typically, anionic polymerization is faster, but has more side reactions and is less
controllable. As a result, imidazole-triggered anionic homopolymerization, which gives better
mechanical performance, is often preferred. What is the benefit of using dual catalyst instead of
using only imidazole?
(2) Page 5, line 41, authors claimed that “the degradation of E-20/HMTA system was similar to
that of E-20/HMTA/2-MI, indicating that a homogenous structure of the matrix was formed”. In
my opinion, this is not true, i.e., similar shape on TGA curves cannot guarantee that a
homogenous structure. Actually, the chain transfer side reactions triggered by the two type of
3
catalyst are not the same, implying that the microstructures are not the same. DMA and TEM
may reveal more detailed differences in the microstructure.
(3) In section 3.3, authors claimed that addition 2-MI increases the crosslink density (which
should be proved by the rubbery plateau modulus in DMA). Then why the toughness is also
improved with increasing crosslink density? Some explanation needs to be offered.
(4) Page 7, line 25-26, authors claimed there are only single exothermic peaks, however, there is
clearly a shoulder peak (esp. at higher heating rates) in Fig 7B, indicating that the curing reaction
is complicated. It appears that HMTA and 2-MI trigger the reaction at different temperatures. If
two types of homopolymerization occur simultaneously, it is not correct to use either Kissinger’s
or Ozawa’s method to analyze the cure kinetics.
(5) Page 8, line 19 and captions in Fig. 7, “Tm” should be replaced by “Tp”.
(6) Page 8, line 30-34, “E-20/HMTA/2-MI systems have a higher activation energy … the ring-
opening reaction of epoxy groups were promoted.” This conclusion appears to be odd. My
experience is that a lower Ea is often correlated with higher reactivity.
(7) Page 8, line 40, the gelation is never related to anything like Ti! It is wrong to obtain Tgel by
extrapolating Ti (onset temperature).
(8) Page 8, line 53, how did you obtain “conversion vs. Temp.” by using the Kissinger’s or
Ozawa’s method? Ref. 34 does not contain any information about analysis of cure kinetics.
(9) Page 9, Eq. 5, more references and explanations are needed about model-free method.
(10) What is the Tg of the fully cured epoxy systems (Tg_inf)? If Tg_inf is lower than 130C, the
curing system is not fully reacted (cannot reach 100% conversion). If it is higher than 130C, a
higher cure temperature must be needed to avoid vitrification. However do you know a high
degree of conversion is indeed achieved by curing at 130C for 10 mins?
Yan Meng
College of Materials Science and Engineering
Beijing University of Chemical Technology
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180566.R0)
07-Jun-2018
Dear Mr Xu:
Title: Preparation and Characterization of Fast-Curing Powder Epoxy Adhesive at Middle
Temperature
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180566
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Jun-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
4
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180566
5
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
6
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This article reported on the fast-curing powder epoxy adhesive prepared by melt blending
method with Bisphenol A epoxy resin (E-20), Hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA) and 2-
methylimidazole (2-MI). The authors have done an extensive study on this all important subject.
If authors add some results and discussion about the adhesive properties, the paper will be
better.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper describes the use of dual catalysts to trigger homopolymerization of E20. The paper is
interesting; however, several issues have to be addressed before its publication. My comments
and suggesting are as follows.
(1) Homopolymerization of epoxide can be achieved either by catalyzed anionic or cationic
polymerization. Typically, anionic polymerization is faster, but has more side reactions and is less
controllable. As a result, imidazole-triggered anionic homopolymerization, which gives better
mechanical performance, is often preferred. What is the benefit of using dual catalyst instead of
using only imidazole?
(2) Page 5, line 41, authors claimed that “the degradation of E-20/HMTA system was similar to
that of E-20/HMTA/2-MI, indicating that a homogenous structure of the matrix was formed”. In
my opinion, this is not true, i.e., similar shape on TGA curves cannot guarantee that a
homogenous structure. Actually, the chain transfer side reactions triggered by the two type of
catalyst are not the same, implying that the microstructures are not the same. DMA and TEM
may reveal more detailed differences in the microstructure.
(3) In section 3.3, authors claimed that addition 2-MI increases the crosslink density (which
should be proved by the rubbery plateau modulus in DMA). Then why the toughness is also
improved with increasing crosslink density? Some explanation needs to be offered.
(4) Page 7, line 25-26, authors claimed there are only single exothermic peaks, however, there is
clearly a shoulder peak (esp. at higher heating rates) in Fig 7B, indicating that the curing reaction
is complicated. It appears that HMTA and 2-MI trigger the reaction at different temperatures. If
two types of homopolymerization occur simultaneously, it is not correct to use either Kissinger’s
or Ozawa’s method to analyze the cure kinetics.
(5) Page 8, line 19 and captions in Fig. 7, “Tm” should be replaced by “Tp”.
(6) Page 8, line 30-34, “E-20/HMTA/2-MI systems have a higher activation energy … the ring-
opening reaction of epoxy groups were promoted.” This conclusion appears to be odd. My
experience is that a lower Ea is often correlated with higher reactivity.
(7) Page 8, line 40, the gelation is never related to anything like Ti! It is wrong to obtain Tgel by
extrapolating Ti (onset temperature).
(8) Page 8, line 53, how did you obtain “conversion vs. Temp.” by using the Kissinger’s or
Ozawa’s method? Ref. 34 does not contain any information about analysis of cure kinetics.
(9) Page 9, Eq. 5, more references and explanations are needed about model-free method.
(10) What is the Tg of the fully cured epoxy systems (Tg_inf)? If Tg_inf is lower than 130C, the
curing system is not fully reacted (cannot reach 100% conversion). If it is higher than 130C, a
7
higher cure temperature must be needed to avoid vitrification. However do you know a high
degree of conversion is indeed achieved by curing at 130C for 10 mins?
Yan Meng
College of Materials Science and Engineering
Beijing University of Chemical Technology
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180566.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180566.R1)
11-Jul-2018
Dear Mr Xu:
Title: Preparation and Characterization of Fast-Curing Powder Epoxy Adhesive at Middle
Temperature
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180566.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
8
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Dear Thomas Foley,
Thank you for your email on 7 June 2018 and your kind help concerning our
manuscript entitled as “Preparation and Characterization of Fast-Curing Powder
Epoxy Adhesive at Middle Temperature
” (Manuscript ID: RSOS-180566).
We have carefully made revision according to your suggestions and the comments
from the reviewers. We greatly appreciate the reviewers’ helpful suggestions and
hope that we have adequately addressed their concerns. Appropriate revised texts are
highlighted in red fonts in the revised manuscript. Detailed responses to comments
are given below.
Response to Reviewer 1
Q.1. This article reported on the fast-curing powder epoxy adhesive prepared by melt
blending method with Bisphenol A epoxy resin (E-20), Hexamethylenetetramine
(HMTA) and 2-methylimidazole (2-MI). The authors have done an extensive study
on this all important subject. If authors add some results and discussion about the
adhesive properties, the paper will be better.
ANS: We appreciated the reviewer's apt comment for our manuscript. According to
the reviewer’s suggestions, we have added the results and discussion of the adhesive
properties in the revised manuscript. The article is supplemented as follows: “Effects
of epoxy adhesives amount on mechanical properties of bamboo wood-based panel
were evaluated. Internal bond strength and flexible strength of bamboo wood-based
panel composites with different powder epoxy adhesives loadings were showed in
Figure 9. It can be observed that the internal bond strength and flexible strength were
obviously improved after adding powder epoxy adhesives.”
Response to Reviewer 2
Q.1. Homopolymerization of epoxide can be achieved either by catalyzed anionic or
cationic polymerization. Typically, anionic polymerization is faster, but has more side
reactions and is less controllable. As a result, imidazole-triggered anionic
homopolymerization, which gives better mechanical performance, is often preferred.
What is the benefit of using dual catalyst instead of using only imidazole?
ANS: We appreciated the reviewer's apt comment for our manuscript. Imidazole
(2MI) has a short storage life and cannot be stored as one-component system for a
longer period of time, and the price is relatively high. Meanwhile, the curing
temperaure of powdered expoxy resins is higher if there is only imidazole, , which
will cause the volatilization of imidazole. We have also reviewed a lot of literatures
(liu, et al ), and it is found that imidazole is often used as a catalyzed. The
incorporation of a small amount of 2-MI can reduce the curing temperature and bring
better mechanical performance. Dual catalyst can make cross-linking density larger
than a single curing agent, and the curing structure is tight.
Q.2. Page 5, line 41, authors claimed that “the degradation of E-20/HMTA system
was similar to that of E-20/HMTA/2-MI, indicating that a homogenous structure of
the matrix was formed”. In my opinion, this is not true, i.e., similar shape on TGA
curves cannot guarantee that a homogenous structure. Actually, the chain transfer side
reactions triggered by the two type of catalyst are not the same, implying that the
microstructures are not the same. DMA and TEM may reveal more detailed
differences in the microstructure.
ANS: Thanks your good suggestion. According to the reviewer’s suggestions, we
have added the DMA analysis in the revised manuscript.
Q.3. In section 3.3, authors claimed that addition 2-MI increases the crosslink density
(which should be proved by the rubbery plateau modulus in DMA). Then why the
toughness is also improved with increasing crosslink density? Some explanation
needs to be offered.
ANS: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion. Indeed, the size of cross-linking
density can be judged by the rubbery plateau modulus in DMA, we have added the
DMA analysis in revised manuscript. According to classical rubber elasticity, Er was
proportional to the average cross-linking density. The cross-linking density of a cured
epoxy network can be calculated using the equation <U+03C1>=Er/3RT. Ref. Liu T, Nie Y et al.
Rsc. Adv, 2015, 5, 3408-3416. Ref. Liu T, Nie Y et al. J. Mater. Chem. A, 2015, 3,
1188-1198.
The increase in fractional free volume can be used to explain the increases in
impact strength and elongation at break, increase cross-linking density is beneficial
for tensile strength. Ref. Miao X, Meng Y et al. J. Appl. Polym. Sci, 2015, 132.
Q.4. Page 7, line 25-26, authors claimed there are only single exothermic peaks,
however, there is clearly a shoulder peak (esp. at higher heating rates) in Fig 7B,
indicating that the curing reaction is complicated. It appears that HMTA and 2-MI
trigger the reaction at different temperatures. If two types of homopolymerization
occur simultaneously, it is not correct to use either Kissinger’s or Ozawa’s method to
analyze the cure kinetics.
ANS: We appreciated the reviewer's apt comment for our manuscript. The reason for
this shoulder peak problem is that three powder materials are not well mixed, which
lead to excessive content of HMTA. We have repeated DSC tests.
Two types of homopolymerization do not occur simultaneously. The curing
reaction of the E-20/HMTA/2-MI systems took place in two steps. Reaction
mechanism: “First, the active hydrogen of the secondary amine on imidazole was
added to epoxy group, and intramolecular complexes of positive and negative ions
could be formed by the resulting adduct and another epoxy group. The negative ion at
the center of complex, which could catalyze the epoxies ring-opening reaction.
Finally, reacted with curing agents and other epoxy groups.”
Q.5. Page 8, line 19 and captions in Fig. 7, “Tm” should be replaced by “Tp”.
ANS: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion. The“Tm” have changed to “Tp” in
revised manuscript.
Q.6 . Page 8, line 30-34, “E-20/HMTA/2-MI systems have a higher activation
energy … the ring-opening reaction of epoxy groups were promoted.” This
conclusion appears to be odd. My experience is that a lower Ea is often correlated
with higher reactivity.
ANS: We appreciated the reviewer's apt comment for our manuscript. The
experimental is that with the introduction of imidazole, the E-20/HMTA/2-MI
systems have a lower activation energy and higher catalytic activity.
Q.7. Page 8, line 40, the gelation is never related to anything like Ti! It is wrong to
obtain Tgel by extrapolating Ti (onset temperature).
ANS: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion. Onset temperature (Ti), peak
temperature (Tp) and post-treatment temperature (Tf) were obtained by extrapolating
the ß to 0. The Tgel has been modified in revised manuscript.
Q.8.Page 8, line 53, how did you obtain “conversion vs. Temp.” by using the
Kissinger’s or Ozawa’s method? Ref. 34 does not contain any information about
analysis of cure kinetics.
ANS: We appreciated the reviewer's apt comment for our manuscript. Conversion vs.
Temp are obtained by using the Ozawa–Flynn–Wall analysis. For that various curing
degree (a) were evaluated by measuring total area (dHT) under the DSC curve and
partial area (dH) at de<U+FB01>nite temperature. The degree of curing (a) is the ratio of dH to
dHT. Ref. Thanki J D et al. J. Therm. Anal. Calorim, 2017,130, 2145-2156.
Q.9.Page 9, Eq.5, more references and explanations are needed about model-free
method.
ANS: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion. The article is supplemented as
follows: “The model-free method assumes that both the activation energy and the pre-
exponential factor are functions of the degree of cure. Eq 8 is called “model-free
method”, because it is applicable to the processes for which Ea varies with a, it
generally produce more reliable estimates for the lifetime. Under this model-free
method we can equate the expressions Eq 6 and Eq 7 related to a given conversion.
Eq 6 and Eq 7 stand for the isothermal (To= const) and nonisothermal (ß= const)
conditions, respectively. To obtain ta , Eq 7 can be divided by Eq 6. Eq 8 enables the
determination of time at which a given conversion will be reached at an any
temperature and To will be computed.” Ref. Kuo P Y, Sain M et al. Green. Chem,
2014, 16, 3483-3493.
Q.10 What is the Tg of the fully cured epoxy systems (Tg _inf)? If Tg _inf is lower
than 130<U+2103>, the curing system is not fully reacted (cannot reach 100% conversion). If
it is higher than 130<U+2103>, a higher cure temperature must be needed to avoid vitrification.
However do you know a high degree of conversion is indeed achieved by curing at
130<U+2103> for 10 min?
ANS: Tg is calculated from DMA method using the peak of tand. The Tg of E-
20/HMTA/2-MI systems are higher than 130<U+2103>, indicating that E-20/HMTA/2-MI
systems can a higher degree of conversion. The article is supplemented as follows:
“Figure 8G showed the isothermal curing reaction of E-20/HMTA/2-MI systems
cured from 110 to 130°C as predicted by using the conversion-dependent apparent
activation energy curve (Ea). When the conversion rates were > 50%, the curing time
of KAS prediction was lower than the actual reaction time”.
Finally, we would like to express our sincere gratitude and appreciation to the editors
and the referees for their work and good suggestions once again. Please feel free to
contact us if you have any questions.
We shall look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience.
Please address all correspondence to:
Email: fshenyuan@sina.com; liuxiaohuancaf@163.com
Sincerely
Prof. Dr Shenyuan Fu, Dr Xiaohuan Liu
28 June 2018
Society Open
