How do red blood cells know when to die?
Clemente Fernandez Arias and Cristina Fernandez Arias
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160850.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160850
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 February 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 March 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160850.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lawrence Rice)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I applaud the efforts of the authors to put context around this important yet neglected field. I will
not pretend to fully understand their mathematical equations, so my review and suggestions
focus on the conceptual framework which underlies their assumptions and hypotheses.
These authors display an excellent grasp of the scientific issues at hand. One deficiency though is
that they may not be aware of recently published work from a group in Utah who have created a
mouse model of neocytolysis, also analyzed red blood cell counts in human newborns born at
altitude, and they confirm that neocytolysis is real, suggest that it is effected by changes in the
ability to resist oxidative stress, and that hypoxia-sensing factors are more responsible than
changes in EPO. I personally don’t feel that these conclusions match all the known data about the
process of neocytolysis, but I think these authors should acknowledge this theory and make some
brief response to it. I would refer them to Song J, J Mol Med (Berl) 93: 857-66, 2015; and to Divoky
V, J Mol Med (Berl) 94: 597-608, 2016.
The authors must correct their misunderstanding in section 3C that “astronauts are exposed to
abnormally high partial pressures of oxygen.” Spaceflight anemia has been observed in every
single astronaut who has gone into space for at least 3 days. One of the early (now discredited)
hypotheses to explain spaceflight anemia was that oxidative damage to the RBC membranes was
caused by the high oxygen environment. However, after the Challenger disaster in 1986, it was
realized that high cabin oxygen pressure was dangerous and that it was completely unnecessary
– all subsequent spaceflights have used ambient air (O2 pressure 20%) in the cabin, and there is
no change in the degree of anemia.
This brings up a couple of points that should be addressed in these authors’ discussion (and also
by the Utah group). They cite correction of hypoxia as the precipitating factor for neocytolysis,
but astronauts are not hypoxic – rather, it appears that changes in red cell mass and EPO
secretion are paramount --at first adaptive, then become maladaptive, then neocytolysis ensues.
Do the authors want to mention and propose a mechanism for this? Can renal sensors detect
elevated red cell mass/ elevated blood viscosity, and how? (It seems a stretch me to believe that
renal receptors are sensing an impairment in oxygen delivery mediated by the reduced blood
flow that accompanies higher hematocrit.) And would these authors agree that this points to a
central role of EPO rather than HIF in initiating the process, a concept further supported by EPO
injections abrogating neocytolysis in descending high altitude dwellers?
Did I miss it in this paper, but do the authors have any idea of the mechanism by which high EPO
situations could lead to an increased expression of CD47 on young RBCs (neocytes), thus priming
them to die when EPO is suppressed? I do understand (and we hypothesized and published
data) that macrophages have EPO receptors and can become more phagocytic with changes in
EPO levels. And while neocytes expressing more CD47 could explain the situation with high
altitude where EPO is first high and then suppressed, I’m not sure I understand how this explains
the situation in astronauts. Also, I want to raise for consideration (and hopefully for some
comment in the manuscript) that it is not really a question of whether an RBC survives 11 days or
120 days – under conditions favoring neocytolysis (such as descent from altitude, emergence
from the womb, re-entry into gravity field), the majority of RBCs less than 10-11 days old are
destroyed very quickly, within one week – in other words, many of these red cells that have been
alive for a day or two become destroyed within another day or two.
All this having been said, I only ask the authors to make some comment on these issues, not
expecting them to solve all riddles. I again applaud their efforts to conceptualize factors
contributing to normal and shortened red cell survival, helping to make more sense of this, with
implications pertaining to a range of human situations and disorders.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160850)
20-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Arias
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160850 entitled
"How do red blood cells know when to die?" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160850
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
4
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 01-Mar-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Mr Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The Reviewer raises several issues with respect to scholarship and presentation which should be
carefully considered in a revised version.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I applaud the efforts of the authors to put context around this important yet neglected field. I will
not pretend to fully understand their mathematical equations, so my review and suggestions
focus on the conceptual framework which underlies their assumptions and hypotheses.
These authors display an excellent grasp of the scientific issues at hand. One deficiency though is
that they may not be aware of recently published work from a group in Utah who have created a
mouse model of neocytolysis, also analyzed red blood cell counts in human newborns born at
altitude, and they confirm that neocytolysis is real, suggest that it is effected by changes in the
ability to resist oxidative stress, and that hypoxia-sensing factors are more responsible than
changes in EPO. I personally don’t feel that these conclusions match all the known data about the
process of neocytolysis, but I think these authors should acknowledge this theory and make some
brief response to it. I would refer them to Song J, J Mol Med (Berl) 93: 857-66, 2015; and to Divoky
V, J Mol Med (Berl) 94: 597-608, 2016.
The authors must correct their misunderstanding in section 3C that “astronauts are exposed to
abnormally high partial pressures of oxygen.” Spaceflight anemia has been observed in every
single astronaut who has gone into space for at least 3 days. One of the early (now discredited)
hypotheses to explain spaceflight anemia was that oxidative damage to the RBC membranes was
caused by the high oxygen environment. However, after the Challenger disaster in 1986, it was
realized that high cabin oxygen pressure was dangerous and that it was completely unnecessary
– all subsequent spaceflights have used ambient air (O2 pressure 20%) in the cabin, and there is
no change in the degree of anemia.
This brings up a couple of points that should be addressed in these authors’ discussion (and also
by the Utah group). They cite correction of hypoxia as the precipitating factor for neocytolysis,
but astronauts are not hypoxic – rather, it appears that changes in red cell mass and EPO
secretion are paramount --at first adaptive, then become maladaptive, then neocytolysis ensues.
Do the authors want to mention and propose a mechanism for this? Can renal sensors detect
elevated red cell mass/ elevated blood viscosity, and how? (It seems a stretch me to believe that
renal receptors are sensing an impairment in oxygen delivery mediated by the reduced blood
flow that accompanies higher hematocrit.) And would these authors agree that this points to a
central role of EPO rather than HIF in initiating the process, a concept further supported by EPO
injections abrogating neocytolysis in descending high altitude dwellers?
Did I miss it in this paper, but do the authors have any idea of the mechanism by which high EPO
situations could lead to an increased expression of CD47 on young RBCs (neocytes), thus priming
them to die when EPO is suppressed? I do understand (and we hypothesized and published
data) that macrophages have EPO receptors and can become more phagocytic with changes in
EPO levels. And while neocytes expressing more CD47 could explain the situation with high
6
altitude where EPO is first high and then suppressed, I’m not sure I understand how this explains
the situation in astronauts. Also, I want to raise for consideration (and hopefully for some
comment in the manuscript) that it is not really a question of whether an RBC survives 11 days or
120 days – under conditions favoring neocytolysis (such as descent from altitude, emergence
from the womb, re-entry into gravity field), the majority of RBCs less than 10-11 days old are
destroyed very quickly, within one week – in other words, many of these red cells that have been
alive for a day or two become destroyed within another day or two.
All this having been said, I only ask the authors to make some comment on these issues, not
expecting them to solve all riddles. I again applaud their efforts to conceptualize factors
contributing to normal and shortened red cell survival, helping to make more sense of this, with
implications pertaining to a range of human situations and disorders.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160850)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160850.R1)
01-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Arias,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "How do red blood cells know when to
die?" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
ppendix A
viewer:
anks for your report on our manuscript. Below, please find our on the points you raised.
“I applaud the efforts of the authors to put context around this important yet neglected field. I will not
tend to fully understand their mathematical equations, so my review and suggestions focus on the
nceptual framework which underlies their assumptions and hypotheses.”
very much appreciate the overall comments of this referee, and we thank the explicit remark on the
evance of this field.
“These authors display an excellent grasp of the scientific issues at hand. One deficiency though is that
y may not be aware of recently published work from a group in Utah who have created a mouse model
neocytolysis, also analyzed red blood cell counts in human newborns born at altitude, and they confirm
t neocytolysis is real, suggest that it is effected by changes in the ability to resist oxidative stress, and
t hypoxia-sensing factors are more responsible than changes in EPO. I personally don’t feel that these
nclusions match all the known data about the process of neocytolysis, but I think these authors should
knowledge this theory and make some brief response to it. I would refer them to Song J, J Mol Med
erl) 93: 857-66, 2015; and to Divoky V, J Mol Med (Berl) 94: 597-608, 2016.”
a matter of fact, although we have tried to conduct an exhaustive review of the available literature, we
d missed the recent work of this group. After carefully reading these papers we have included a
mmentary on the potential role of hypoxia-sensing factors in our discussion. Nevertheless, some of the
dences presented in this work to support the role of HIF in neocytolysis can also be related to changes
EPO. For instance, they show that dimethyloxallyl glycine (DMOG), an inhibitor of a negative regulator
HIF, attenuated neocytolysis. However, the authors do not show how this drug is affecting EPO
duction. It could be the case that an increase in HIF might lead to greater EPO production by kidney
roblasts, which in turn would be expected to reduce the observed effects of neocytolysis. In any case,
th EPO and HIF might be playing a role in setting RBC lifespan.
“The authors must correct their misunderstanding in section 3C that “astronauts are exposed to
normally high partial pressures of oxygen.” Spaceflight anemia has been observed in every single
ronaut who has gone into space for at least 3 days. One of the early (now discredited) hypotheses to
plain spaceflight anemia was that oxidative damage to the RBC membranes was caused by the high
ygen environment. However, after the Challenger disaster in 1986, it was realized that high cabin
ygen pressure was dangerous and that it was completely unnecessary – all subsequent spaceflights
ve used ambient air (O2 pressure 20\%) in the cabin, and there is no change in the degree of anemia.”
agree with the referee that this is an overstatement on our part. Our original idea was that astronauts
ght be subject to high levels of oxygen during ascent phases of spatial flights. However, we have not
nd any solid reference to support the assumption that this might suffice to induce observed changes in
O, so we have decided to remove this phrase from the text.
“This brings up a couple of points that should be addressed in these authors’ discussion (and also by
Utah group). They cite correction of hypoxia as the precipitating factor for neocytolysis, but astronauts
not hypoxic – rather, it appears that changes in red cell mass and EPO secretion are paramount --at
t adaptive, then become maladaptive, then neocytolysis ensues. Do the authors want to mention and
pose a mechanism for this? Can renal sensors detect elevated red cell mass/ elevated blood viscosity,
d how? (It seems a stretch me to believe that renal receptors are sensing an impairment in oxygen
ivery mediated by the reduced blood flow that accompanies higher hematocrit.) And would these
thors agree that this points to a central role of EPO rather than HIF in initiating the process, a concept
ther supported by EPO injections abrogating neocytolysis in descending high altitude dwellers?”
a matter of fact, we do not suggest that hypoxia is the precipitating factor for neocytolysis. Quite the
posite, as we discuss in the text, neocytolysis (and autoimmunity against host RBCs) would be triggered
a decrease in the levels of EPO, which is usually (but not exclusively) caused by an increase in oxygen
ailability. Hence, neocytolysis is a response to hyperoxia, i.e., to situations in which oxygen supply is
ove physiological needs. Neocytolysis has been described in subjects that move from hypoxia to
rmoxia. In these cases, an organism that has adapted to lower oxygen availability (by increasing the
mber of RBCs) is exposed to increased levels of oxygen. This implies that the number of RBCs is
mporarily above physiological needs, so the organism must remove the excess of cells. Neocytolysis,
ether with potential autoimmune responses against healthy RBCs, rapidly reduce the number of
culating cells. We suggest in the text that these mechanisms might be triggered in response to
ctuations in EPO, irrespectively of the causes of such fluctuations. It should also be expected to observe
anges in HIF caused by hypoxia, and we have included a few lines in the discussion to indicate how
veral factors might simultaneously contribute to observed changes in RBC lifespan.
“Did I miss it in this paper, but do the authors have any idea of the mechanism by which high EPO
uations could lead to an increased expression of CD47 on young RBCs (neocytes), thus priming them to
when EPO is suppressed? I do understand (and we hypothesized and published data) that
crophages have EPO receptors and can become more phagocytic with changes in EPO levels. And while
ocytes expressing more CD47 could explain the situation with high altitude where EPO is first high and
n suppressed, I’m not sure I understand how this explains the situation in astronauts.”
are currently working on this subject. In particular we are studying the link between the levels of
culating EPO and the amount of CD47 expression in newly formed RBCs. One of the potential
chanisms that might account for higher levels of CD47 in conditions of higher concentrations of EPO
uld be the following. Suppose that CD47 expression in erythroid precursors decreases with time at a
nstant rate. Then, the longer it takes for a precursor cell to divide, the lower the amount of CD47 in
ughter cells. In this scenario, an increase of EPO would accelerate the rate of division of precursor cells,
., it would shorten the division time of these cells. Therefore, it would eventually increase CD47
pression in neocytes. This mechanism could be complementary to changes in macrophage phagocytic
ivity in response to changes in EPO. However, this is just a working hypothesis, and we have decided
t to include it in this paper. Instead, it will be (hopefully) discussed in more depth in a future article.
“Also, I want to raise for consideration (and hopefully for some comment in the manuscript) that it is
t really a question of whether an RBC survives 11 days or 120 days – under conditions favoring
ocytolysis (such as descent from altitude, emergence from the womb, re-entry into gravity field), the
jority of RBCs less than 10-11 days old are destroyed very quickly, within one week – in other words,
ny of these red cells that have been alive for a day or two become destroyed within another day or
o.”
are not sure to have fully understood this question. In our opinion, the relevance of changes in RBC
span is that they allow changing the rate of RBC destruction. If RBC lifespan were fixed (say, for
tance 120 days), then the rate of RBC destruction would just mimic the rate of RBC production, only
h a delay of 120 days. A ten-fold reduction in the lifespan of a fraction of RBCs accelerates cell
struction, and helps to rapidly adjust the number of cells to the needs of the organism. As we comment
the manuscript, the question of whether RBCs survive 11 or 120 days is determined by the same set of
chanisms, namely the dynamics of PS and CD47 in the membrane of RBCs, together with the initial
ount of CD47 expression, which in turn depends on the levels of EPO.
“All this having been said, I only ask the authors to make some comment on these issues, not
pecting them to solve all riddles. I again applaud their efforts to conceptualize factors contributing to
rmal and shortened red cell survival, helping to make more sense of this, with implications pertaining to
ange of human situations and disorders.”
thank again this referee for such positive comments on this work.
Society Open
