Mid-winter temperatures, not spring temperatures, predict
breeding phenology in the European starling Sturnus
vulgaris
Tony D. Williams, Sophie Bourgeon, Allison Cornell, Laramie Ferguson, Melinda Fowler,
Raime B. Fronstin, Oliver P. Love
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140301.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140301
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 September 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st resubmission date: 17 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd resubmission date: 4 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 9 December 2014
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140301.R0(Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I don't remember having read anything about data availability
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting paper. There has been surprisingly few studies on the relationship between
temperature and timing in starlings, despite the fact that this species easily breeds in nestboxes,
which simplifies its study. I only have relatively minor comments, which have more to do with
rethinking some concepts and statements than reporting real problems.
General comments:
1. Authors claim in the title and at different places in the manuscript that starlings use "winter"
temperatures, while other species tend to use "spring" temperatures to time their breeding period.
While I agree that the most important temperature window for starlings is earlier than for most
other species, the way it is currently presented is a bit caricatural, oversimplistic and not always
correct. The authors don't bring much support for their statement that in most species studied,
temperatures <1 months prior to laying are the most influential ones (and thus what they call
"spring temperature" as opposed to "winter temperature" for starlings). I had to go back to some
of the literature and figured out that this is not always true. If Nager and Van Noordwijk (1995)
indeed report a sliding window for tits that covers March 17 to April 15, Van Balen's (1973)
window already started on March 1st (thus strictly speaking still in winter). Visser et al (2003)
used temperatures 6 weeks prior to breeding (thus also covering part of the winter); Bourgault
et al (2010) used March temperature (thus 20 days of winter and 10 days of spring), etc. Brommer
et al (2008) found a time window between March 31 and April 26, but here the earliest laying
dates of gulls are around early May, thus much later than starlings or tits. Thus I think the
authors should either drop this winter/spring opposition because it is too vague and not always
correct, or they should be more explicit about it and present the periods of previously published
sliding windows in a table. In addition, they should account for the fact that different species
breed at different times of the year and thus authors should talk more about how long before
breeding temperature is influential rather than (or in addition to) using terms that have been
quite arbitrarily defined like "winter" and "spring".
2. I have been surprised to see that another paper that studied the effect of temperature on timing
of breeding in starlings (Meijer et al 1999 in Condor) is not discussed here, especially since this
study was experimental and specifically tested for a direct relationship between temperature and
laying dates. Meijer et al claimed, based on their results, that temperatures just prior to laying
were highly important, thus the exact opposite of what is found here...
Specific comments
-P2L22-27: "European starlings appear to be...". This sentence is hard to understand for someone
who didn't read the whole paper, please clarify and expand.
-P2L29: Suggesting that temperature effects are only "indirect" implies that the effect of
temperature only occurs via a third variable, which in this case would be the phenology of
Tipulids, and that starlings respond to Tipulids' phenology rather than temperature itself. I don't
think this is what the authors mean. Tipulids here appear to be the selection factor, but starlings
seems to respond to temperature, which effect would then be "direct" and not "indirect".
-P5L36-43: I appreciate the authors' effort to cross-validate temperature data from different
weather stations, but why using monthly averages, which could be expected to vary little across
stations, rather than daily temperatures?
-P6L20: Very good initiative to use both the sliding window and the proportional hazard models
for analysing temperature data. The principle of the latter should however be explained, at least
in general terms.
-P6L27: What is the rationale for using August temperatures? The explanation only comes in the
discussion, it should already be detailed here.
3
-P6L44: "a range of only 8 days": yes but given how clutches were selected for the analysis, some
first clutches have probably been excluded and this small range is somewhat biased. In addition, I
suppose that experiments involving clutch manipulations (which authors use to justify why the
selected range of laying dates for the analyses is so narrow, see P5L5-22) have not been conducted
in all 13 years of the study. Thus, what does the range of egg-laying dates become when years
without any experimental work are excluded?
-P7L37: "(P>0.05 in both)": please give the exact p-values.
-P8L6: what is "lsmeans"?
-P9L27: about 30% of nearly 1000 laying dates is still a significant amount of data that could have
been analysed for within-female variation.
-P10L37: Is clutch size related to the annual variation in laying date per se, or with mean laying
date across years?
-P11L1: are starlings exquisitely tuned to date or to temperature? Laying dates and clutch sizes
are strongly correlated with temperature, thus the years when starlings lay at an early date
(which allows for second clutches) and small clutches are also years that are warmer.
-P11L36: "gonadal development" could be replaced by "rapid follicle growth".
-P11L36: "resource acquisition OF pre-laying"
-P11L46-56: I don't understand that argument. The paper is about timing of breeding, but here the
authors talk about productivity of birds and abundance of Tipulids. I don't see the link between
timing and abundance. If August temperatures only predict the future abundance of Tipulids
(and not the timing of their emergence), I don't see why the authors expect these temperatures to
influence starlings' timing. I would better understand a relationship between August
temperatures and starlings' clutch size (productivity) for example, but not timing.
-P12L34: if the availability of Tipulids lasts for 30-40 days, which is finally quite long, I don't
understand why starlings are so synchronous? It would be good to have some discussion about
that point. Tits for example are much less synchronous, although the caterpillar peak that selects
their timing only lasts 2-3 weeks.
-P13L24-30: long lag times are indeed generally expected to lead to weaker correlations, but in the
present case, if the annual timing of Tipulids is indeed "hard wired" by Dec-Feb temperatures,
and if starlings strongly respond to that same temperature window, the duration of the time lag
shouldn't matter very much.
-Figure 1: Jan 8 - Feb 22 on the X-axis is only true for the solid line I think, not the dashed one that
has been calculated for Jan 25 - Feb 19.
-Figure 2: The deviation from mean brood size at fledging (X-axis) is to my knowledge never
discussed in the paper, although that might be an interesting point.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Karen Wiebe)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No, it was not clear where the supporting data were available
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
4
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Review of Williams et al. " Mid-winter temperatures, not spring temperatures, predict breeding
phenology"
The question of how birds use environmental cues to adjust the timing of breeding is an
interesting and topical one given the concern over rapidly changing climates. Here the authors
take advantage of a long-term study on European starlings to analyze the relationship between
environmental temperatures in the months prior to breeding, and annual laying dates in the
population. They report an unusual result that it is the temperature about 2 months before egg-
laying which is most strongly correlated with laying dates, and not the temperatures close to (i.e.,
1-2 weeks before egg laying).
I have a few minor questions about the methodology for dealing with the experimental nest
removal (see detailed comments below) but don't know whether it will change the main results of
the paper. I do have 2 general comments which will affect the framework and
presentation/discussion of the results:
Main Comments
1. The authors make strong statements in the introduction and also discussion (e.g. top of page 9)
that "In contrast to all previous species studied, laying date was correlated with mid-winter and
not spring temperatures…). However this is not true as they fail to cite Wiebe and Gerstmar
(2010), a study on flickers which also used the same sliding-window approach and reported 2
time periods of strong correlation with laying dates: a spring period 1-2 weeks prior to laying ,
but also an early date (4 March) which is at least 2 months prior to the average population laying
dates in mid-May (i.e., about the same time lag between the cue and laying date as reported in
the starling study). In the flicker case, the early temperatures corresponded to phenology along
the migration route, and Wiebe & Gerstmar concluded that laying dates in the population were
partly determined by the speed and timing of annual migration (weeks and months before
laying), which in turn was influenced by late-winter/ early spring temperatures en route.
Migration seems to be a neglected phenomenon/mechanism in this paper. Although the timing
of migration is often triggered by photoperiod (as opposed to temperature) in many species,
there are some studies which have documented changes in the timing, speed, or arrival dates
according to shifting winter/spring temperatures on the wintering grounds or migration route.
This is sometimes (but not always) linked to shifts in earlier laying dates for the population. I'm
not up on all the recent migration literature, but the authors should go through this carefully
because there likely are links between early temperature regimes and laying dates in other
species too.
The authors interpret their early correlation as having to do with local food supply as opposed to
migration, but irrespective of mechanism, they should acknowledge other study (ies) which may
have documented links with early temperatures. In the discussion section, they list a variety of
possible mechanisms to explain laying dates in birds but do not talk about migration. This aspect
should be addressed in the paper. This leads to the second comment:
2. The authors don't mention anywhere whether their starlings are resident or migratory. Is this a
colour-banded population? Do they know where their breeding population comes from? This
information is important because it tells us what cues the birds actually have available to them.
E.g. line 8 page 13 states that "this temperature cue provides starlings with information on
breeding season prey density…." However if this is true, the breeders must be resident in Jan/
Feb. to experience the local winter temperatures. What proof do the authors have of residency? If
5
the population is migratory, the birds can't use the local winter temperatures a proximate cue. (in
that case they may be able to assess the size of tipulid larvae later in spring and use that as a
cue….but then the winter temperatures themselves would not be the cue, but would just be
correlated with the size of the larvae.)
Minor points:
1) line 6 page 2. Spring should not be capitalized
2) line 8 page 2. "Theoretical predictions" change wording. Predictions are not theoretical, they
are actual predictions…
3) line 17 page 3. "seasonal reproductive development"-- vague--what is this exactly? Do you
mean gonadal development?
4) line 32 page 3. Typo, there are 2 "that"s
5) lines 34 and 36, page 3. Inconsistent style of quotations marks. However, I don't actually think
you need to use quotation marks here at all because these are standard, recognized terms in the
field. Seems to be a general overuse of quotation marks around terms and phrases, and overuse
of italics (e.g. line 41) to try to indicate importance of words??
6) The last paragraph of the introduction is misplaced because it presents the authors' results.
(This information belongs in the results section). Rather, the authors should focus here on
hypotheses and predictions for the study, or justifying starlings as their study species. Maybe
here would be good to highlight differences in cues between resident versus migratory species
and tell us where the starling fits in?
7) line 55 page 4. Needs comma after year
8) line 8 page 5. "several years" which years? Be precise
9) line 10 page 5. At how many nests were the clutches actually experimentally removed?
10) lines 8-22, page 5. Methodology: Some of the calculations and rationale to avoid including
potential renests from the experimentally-removed boxes were a bit hard to follow. Were the
removal females colour-banded? If so, it is easy to exclude their subsequent nests. Also, you
should exclude any clutches that subsequently appeared in the nestboxes where the original
clutch was removed (it was not clear from the methods whether you did so). Even if a new female
nested in the former box and it was her first clutch of the season, she may have been delayed in
settling because of the earlier presence of the experimental female, and so any clutch data from
the experimental boxes needs to be excluded entirely from analyses.
If the removal females were not banded, it is a danger that they move to a new box and lay a
replacement clutch, although I don't know how likely this is to occur in your population (how
many available boxes are there and what proportion are occupied, and how far do females move
between nesting attempts?). If females can potentially start a renest 5 days after egg removal as
you say on line 20 page 5, then any new nest appearing in the population > 5 d post-removal
could be considered a "suspect" renest… true??? The authors also state that the nestboxes were
checked daily and so they can detect any clutches initiated > 5 d post-removal. If so, they should
use that date (5 days after the first experimental removal) as a simple and reliable criterion to
exclude nests, rather than the 12 days…
11) Information about the software program(s) used should be added to the methods
12) First para of results: The month April needs to be spelled out? Actually, the spelling style of
the month varies throughout the paper and needs to be consistent.
13) Do the authors have information on the age of the females which they could enter into the
models? For most birds, female age has a significant effect on laying dates and clutch size so it
would be informative to be able to control for this in the models.
14) line 36 page 9 . and line 20 page 10. I don't like the term "peak nests" as there can be several
modes (peaks) of initiation in the population. Rather use "first nests" and "renests" or "second
nests" here and throughout.
Karen Wiebe
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140301)
14-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Williams,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Mid-winter temperatures, not spring temperatures,
predict breeding phenology in the European starling Sturnus vulgaris") has now received
comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the
referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140301)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140301.R1(Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Karen Wiebe)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
7
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No I couldn't find any reference to supporting data in the MS
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The revised draft is clearer and addresses most of my concerns with the exception of two points:
1) Despite the authors refusal add the migration mechanism to the discussion, I still think that
migration needs to be mentioned here for completeness. Surely the question of the speed and
timing of migration will be raised in the heads of other readers as it was for myself, so this point
needs to be addressed. It would not take an extensive review of the migration literature or
paragraphs of more text as the authors seem to fear. A simple 1-2 sentences could do the trick.
e.g. "Among some bird species, the timing of migratory movements is correlated with spring
temperatures along the route and may act as a mechanism to match annual differences in
phenology with the timing of breeding (Wiebe and Gerstmar 2010, XXXX). However, this
mechanism would not apply to populations which are resident, such as our starlings.
2) I don't agree with the author's statement that it is common to include results of the paper in the
introduction section (at least its not in the journals I publish in). Anyway, this is a stylistic issue
so I leave it to the editor to decide whether or not the last paragraph of the intro should be
deleted. I also still feel that the hypotheses and predictions and rationale for this particular study
system and study species are not well laid out in the introduction section, and could be
improved. Again, it would probably take only take 1-3 sentences to address this explicitly.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140301.R1)
02-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Williams
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140301.R1
entitled "Mid-winter temperatures, not spring temperatures, predict breeding phenology in the
European starling Sturnus vulgaris" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
8
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". All main documents should
include the following sections before the references.
• Ethics statement - where relevant
• Data accessibility statement - where relevant
• Competing interests statement
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140301.R1)
Response to reviewer’s comments:
Note: original data have been deposited in Dryad and this information, with the doi number, has
been added to at the end of the MS under Data Accessibility.
Reviewer 2 The revised draft is clearer and addresses most of my concerns with the exception of
two points:
1) Despite the authors refusal add the migration mechanism to the discussion, I still think that
migration needs to be mentioned here for completeness. Surely the question of the speed and
9
timing of migration will be raised in the heads of other readers as it was for myself, so this point
needs to be addressed. It would not take an extensive review of the migration literature or
paragraphs of more text as the authors seem to fear. A simple 1-2 sentences could do the trick.
e.g. "Among some bird species, the timing of migratory movements is correlated with spring
temperatures along the route and may act as a mechanism to match annual differences in
phenology with the timing of breeding (Wiebe and Gerstmar 2010, XXXX). However, this
mechanism would not apply to populations which are resident, such as our starlings.
We have now added a sentence (and the citation) to include this point (p. 14, line 7-10).
2) I don't agree with the author's statement that it is common to include results of the paper in the
introduction section (at least its not in the journals I publish in). Anyway, this is a stylistic issue so
I leave it to the editor to decide whether or not the last paragraph of the intro should be deleted. I
also still feel that the hypotheses and predictions and rationale for this particular study system
and study species are not well laid out in the introduction section, and could be improved. Again,
it would probably take only take 1-3 sentences to address this explicitly.
We have revised this paragraph to include objectives, and to reduce the description of results.
However, we have retained a clear statement of the key result which is completely opposite to the
predictions and which is the most important and exciting part of the paper.
pendix A
r Dr. Wray
ase find attached a revised version of our Manuscript ID RSOS-140301. We thank the
ewers for their comments and, with one exception, we believe we have fully addressed all of
r points, and that the paper is much improved. We detail our response to the reviewer’s
cific comments in detail below. The one point we have not fully addressed is reviewer 2’s
uest that we add in information on migratory species. For reasons we give below we think this
ot that relevant and this would add markedly to the length of the paper (which is already
siderably longer than the original due to our response to the AE from our initial, rejected,
logy Letters submission (2nd paragraph of Discussion) and now from addressing other points
ed by the two current reviewers (3rd paragraph of Discussion).
ny thanks.
y D Williams
ponse to reviewer’s comments:
iewer: 1
s is an interesting paper. There has been surprisingly few studies on the relationship between
perature and timing in starlings, despite the fact that this species easily breeds in nest boxes,
ch simplifies its study. I only have relatively minor comments, which have more to do with
inking some concepts and statements than reporting real problems.
eral comments:
uthors claim in the title and at different places in the manuscript that starlings use "winter"
peratures, while other species tend to use "spring" temperatures to time their breeding
od. While I agree that the most important temperature window for starlings is earlier than
most other species, the way it is currently presented is a bit caricatural, oversimplistic and
always correct. The authors don't bring much support for their statement that in most species
ied, temperatures <1 months prior to laying are the most influential ones (and thus what
call "spring temperature" as opposed to "winter temperature" for starlings). I had to go
k to some of the literature and figured out that this is not always true. If Nager and Van
rdwijk (1995) indeed report a sliding window for tits that covers March 17 to April 15, Van
en's (1973) window already started on March 1st (thus strictly speaking still in winter).
er et al (2003) used temperatures 6 weeks prior to breeding (thus also covering part of the
ter); Bourgault et al (2010) used March temperature (thus 20 days of winter and 10 days of
ng), etc. Brommer et al (2008) found a time window between March 31 and April 26, but
e the earliest laying dates of gulls are around early May, thus much later than starlings or
Thus I think the authors should either drop this winter/spring opposition because it is too
ue and not always correct, or they should be more explicit about it and present the periods of
viously published sliding windows in a table. In addition, they should account for the fact that
erent species breed at different times of the year and thus authors should talk more about how
g before breeding temperature is influential rather than (or in addition to) using terms that
e been quite arbitrarily defined like "winter" and "spring".
decided not to provide a Table with this information, but instead we have opted to specify
precise time periods when temperature is most influential for different studies. We have
e these changes throughout the MS (e.g. lines 2 and 5 of Abstract; p. 4, line 11-14), e.g. most
vious studies do show that temperatures < 1 month before egg-laying most highly correlate
h laying dates. In our study, this period is c.50-90 days before laying, up to three times greater
the temperature sensitive interval in most other species.
Unfortunately, many (most?) previous studies have commonly used the term “spring” or
ring. For example, Meijer (1999) states “Timing of breeding is highly correlated with spring
peratures in various species ..” and “An increase in mean spring Ta of 10C advances the start
he breeding season” [actually citing Nager and van Noordwijk’s study highlighted by the
ewer]’ Bourgault et al’s (2010) paper actually uses the terminology “Spring vegetation
nology ..” in the title. Hussell (2003) described “Climate change, spring temperatures, and
ng of breeding of tree swallows” [Auk 120:607-619]. Dunn (2004) summarized a large
ber of studies and showed that 79% (45/57) of species showed a significant negative
tionship between the date of egg- laying and “Spring air temperature”, and (unfortunately)
ing temperatures” is the term used in previous studies of starlings (citations 30-32).
refore, it is hard to get away from this term when we are citing other papers that use this
. We used the term “Mid-winter” – which we now qualify - in the abstract which is more
urate and sets our result apart even from those studies that include days in “late winter”,
hlighted by the reviewer, i.e. before March 21st, so we use this rather than simply “winter”,
qualify this with precise day ranges, where we feel this is appropriate and less wordy. We
e retained the short-hand “mid-winter” and “spring” in the title as otherwise this would be too
dy.
We agree that it is important to distinguish data for different species that breed at
erent times of the year, and we have now added a short paragraph dealing with this.
wever, we think it is accurate to conclude that on average temperatures much closer to onset
gg-laying (<1 month) are most closely associated with laying date cf. c.50-90 days – we
vide citations to support this interpretation. Nevertheless, we have now added a paragraph to
Discussion (p. 11, line 5 onwards) to deal with this comment from the reviewer – this
voidably adds to the length of the paper, and we hope this is okay.
have been surprised to see that another paper that studied the effect of temperature on timing
reeding in starlings (Meijer et al 1999 in Condor) is not discussed here, especially since this
y was experimental and specifically tested for a direct relationship between temperature and
ng dates. Meijer et al claimed, based on their results, that temperatures just prior to laying
e highly important, thus the exact opposite of what is found here...
were aware of this paper and have now included this study (p.1, lines 21-24 and p. 14, lines
17) but with caveats, e.g. Meijer studied a migratory population and only manipulated
perature close to laying. There have been several more recent studies of temperature and
ng in the laboratory and these have highlighted the inconsistency of responses to temperature
aptive-breeding birds, cf. the strong relationships observed in the wild, suggesting that these
ies too are not without problems. The contrast between Meijer’s field data (migratory
lings) and ours (largely resident) is interesting and we now discuss that on p. 14, lines 12-17.
cific comments
L22-27: "European starlings appear to be...". This sentence is hard to understand for
eone who didn't read the whole paper, please clarify and expand.
t revised for clarification to “European starlings show strong date-dependent variation in
ch size and productivity, but this appears to be mediated …” consistent with the main text
not expand within 200 word abstract limit).
L29: Suggesting that temperature effects are only "indirect" implies that the effect of
perature only occurs via a third variable, which in this case would be the phenology of
ulids, and that starlings respond to Tipulids' phenology rather than temperature itself. I don't
k this is what the authors mean. Tipulids here appear to be the selection factor, but starlings
ms to respond to temperature, which effect would then be "direct" and not "indirect".
hough we are speculating here (hence the last few words of the abstract), and attempting not
speculate at too greater length, this is what we are suggesting. We discuss this at length in
ultimate paragraph of the Discussion.
L36-43: I appreciate the authors' effort to cross-validate temperature data from different
ther stations, but why using monthly averages, which could be expected to vary little across
ions, rather than daily temperatures?
used mean temperature for two reasons: a) we don’t think that birds are responding to daily
ation in Ta at least for seasonal breeding decisions, and b) data were incomplete for some
od for all other nearby weather stations; so we chose months with complete data for our
s-site comparison. However, we have now analysed the available data using daily
peratures and we get the same result: r > 0.95. We have added “daily” to the text (p.6, line 4).
L20: Very good initiative to use both the sliding window and the proportional hazard models
analysing temperature data. The principle of the latter should however be explained, at least
eneral terms.
eed, text revised and more information added.
L27: What is the rationale for using August temperatures? The explanation only comes in the
ussion, it should already be detailed here.
eed, text revised. We have added the rationale for this analysis here.
L44: "a range of only 8 days": yes but given how clutches were selected for the analysis,
e first clutches have probably been excluded and this small range is somewhat biased. In
ition, I suppose that experiments involving clutch manipulations (which authors use to justify
the selected range of laying dates for the analyses is so narrow, see P5L5-22) have not been
ducted in all 13 years of the study. Thus, what does the range of egg-laying dates become
n years without any experimental work are excluded?
first clutches were excluded for laying date analysis because in years where clutches were
oved egg removal only occurred after completion of laying, so this did not affect the
ribution of first nest dates. In addition there was no difference in laying synchrony in years
h and without egg removal experiments, and the year of highest synchrony (80% of nests in 2
s, 2012) was a year with no clutch removal. We have added this information to the end of the
hods section (p.5, lines 5-20).
L37: "(P>0.05 in both)": please give the exact p-values.
ct P values now given in text.
L6: what is "lsmeans"?
ast-Squares Means”; the full term is now used in the MS.
L27: about 30% of nearly 1000 laying dates is still a significant amount of data that could
e been analysed for within-female variation.
agree (see p.10, lines 6-10) but the counter argument is that 70% of the laying date data on
known” individuals is also very valuable for this population-level analysis. Now that we have
racterised population level responses this can inform any subsequent analysis.
0L37: Is clutch size related to the annual variation in laying date per se, or with mean laying
e across years?
reported this (p.8, lines 14-23 2 and Table 1).
1L1: are starlings exquisitely tuned to date or to temperature? Laying dates and clutch sizes
strongly correlated with temperature, thus the years when starlings lay at an early date
ich allows for second clutches) and small clutches are also years that are warmer.
are not sure we fully understand this point; but based on strong relationships between date
clutch size, and date and productivity (our study and others cited in the MS) we think this is
appropriate statement; starlings appear to respond to date, but use temperature as the cue to
w this. Had we found no effect of date on life-history traits then we wouldn’t have gone in
ch of the cue.
1L36: "gonadal development" could be replaced by "rapid follicle growth".
think that gonadal growth is more appropriate since there remains the possibility of
perature-dependent rates of pre-vitellogenic follicle development.
1L36: "resource acquisition OF pre-laying"
t corrected.
1L46-56: I don't understand that argument. The paper is about timing of breeding, but here
authors talk about productivity of birds and abundance of Tipulids. I don't see the link
ween timing and abundance. If August temperatures only predict the future abundance of
ulids (and not the timing of their emergence), I don't see why the authors expect these
peratures to influence starlings' timing. I would better understand a relationship between
ust temperatures and starlings' clutch size (productivity) for example, but not timing.
agree that this is somewhat confusing because the Pearce-Higgins paper does mainly relate
roductivity not timing of laying. However, we included this because of previous comments
en we presented this work) that there might be other temperature periods that would be
ortant, not just during the pre-laying period. Also, the discussion on pg. 14/15 of our paper
gests that temperature can (somehow) affect both timing of Tipulid larval development and
l biomass, so this could potentially affect timing and productivity in starling. We have added
point to the text (p.13, line 23 to p.14 line 5) to clarify this, but if this response is not OK we
ld be happy to delete this specific analysis from the paper.
2L34: if the availability of Tipulids lasts for 30-40 days, which is finally quite long, I don't
erstand why starlings are so synchronous? It would be good to have some discussion about
point. Tits for example are much less synchronous, although the caterpillar peak that selects
r timing only lasts 2-3 weeks.
think the answer to this is that our population is commonly double-brooded. We partly
ressed this in the paragraph on p. 12, lines 17-20. We have now revised the text (p.15, lines
adding “during which many of our birds attempt to produce two broods (see Fig. 3.3 in [4])
this is likely key in explaining the high breeding synchrony”.
3L24-30: long lag times are indeed generally expected to lead to weaker correlations, but in
present case, if the annual timing of Tipulids is indeed "hard wired" by Dec-Feb
peratures, and if starlings strongly respond to that same temperature window, the duration of
time lag shouldn't matter very much.
agree that “hard wired” is too absolute a term. We have replaced this with “sets the trajectory
(p.2, line 14-15 and p. 15, line 15) which is a more accurate description of the few empirical
available to support this hypothesis. We do envisage that early temperatures are influential,
perhaps in most years, they are the main determinant. But it is possible that other stochastic
ors can subsequently modulate timing or larval development or biomass (as perhaps occurred
013).
ure 1: Jan 8 - Feb 22 on the X-axis is only true for the solid line I think, not the dashed one
has been calculated for Jan 25 - Feb 19.
dashed line here is actually the relationship using the Jan 8 – Feb 22 time window, but for all
rs excluding 2013. We wanted to show that even with the “anomalous” year the relationship
ill strong. The legend is therefore accurate.
ure 2: The deviation from mean brood size at fledging (X-axis) is to my knowledge never
ussed in the paper, although that might be an interesting point.
did discuss this in the original MS (now p. 13, lines 1-7).
iewer: 2
question of how birds use environmental cues to adjust the timing of breeding is an
resting and topical one given the concern over rapidly changing climates. Here the authors
advantage of a long-term study on European starlings to analyze the relationship between
ironmental temperatures in the months prior to breeding, and annual laying dates in the
ulation. They report an unusual result that it is the temperature about 2 months before egg-
ng which is most strongly correlated with laying dates, and not the temperatures close to
, 1-2 weeks before egg laying).
ave a few minor questions about the methodology for dealing with the experimental nest
oval (see detailed comments below) but don't know whether it will change the main results of
paper. I do have 2 general comments which will affect the framework and
sentation/discussion of the results:
n Comments
he authors make strong statements in the introduction and also discussion (e.g. top of page
hat "In contrast to all previous species studied, laying date was correlated with mid-winter
not spring temperatures…). However this is not true as they fail to cite Wiebe and
stmar (2010), a study on flickers which also used the same sliding-window approach and
orted 2 time periods of strong correlation with laying dates: a spring period 1-2 weeks prior
aying , but also an early date (4 March) which is at least 2 months prior to the average
ulation laying dates in mid-May (i.e., about the same time lag between the cue and laying
e as reported in the starling study). In the flicker case, the early temperatures corresponded
henology along the migration route, and Wiebe & Gerstmar concluded that laying dates in
population were partly determined by the speed and timing of annual migration (weeks and
ths before laying), which in turn was influenced by late-winter/ early spring temperatures
oute.
ase see our combined response to point 1 and 2 below.
ration seems to be a neglected phenomenon/mechanism in this paper. Although the timing of
ration is often triggered by photoperiod (as opposed to temperature) in many species, there
some studies which have documented changes in the timing, speed, or arrival dates
ording to shifting winter/spring temperatures on the wintering grounds or migration route.
s is sometimes (but not always) linked to shifts in earlier laying dates for the population. I'm
up on all the recent migration literature, but the authors should go through this carefully
ause there likely are links between early temperature regimes and laying dates in other
cies too.
ase see our combined response to point 1 and 2 below.
authors interpret their early correlation as having to do with local food supply as opposed to
ration, but irrespective of mechanism, they should acknowledge other study (ies) which may
e documented links with early temperatures. In the discussion section, they list a variety of
sible mechanisms to explain laying dates in birds but do not talk about migration. This aspect
uld be addressed in the paper. This leads to the second comment:
ase see our combined response to point 1 and 2 below.
The authors don't mention anywhere whether their starlings are resident or migratory. Is this
olour-banded population? Do they know where their breeding population comes from? This
rmation is important because it tells us what cues the birds actually have available to them.
line 8 page 13 states that "this temperature cue provides starlings with information on
eding season prey density…." However if this is true, the breeders must be resident in Jan/
. to experience the local winter temperatures. What proof do the authors have of residency?
e population is migratory, the birds can't use the local winter temperatures a proximate cue.
that case they may be able to assess the size of tipulid larvae later in spring and use that as a
….but then the winter temperatures themselves would not be the cue, but would just be
related with the size of the larvae..
confess that while the statement, “Migration seems to be a neglected
nomenon/mechanism in this paper” is accurate we did not foresee this issue. When we started
analysis it was obviously important to know that our study population is resident in winter,
therefore that birds do experience local winter temperatures (which forms the basis of our
lysis). Had our birds been migratory we would have approached the analysis differently, e.g.
g temperatures along the migration route, as did Wiebe and Gerstmar (2010) for their
ratory flickers.
We know that our birds are partial/local migrants and agree that it is important to include
point (reviewer’s point 2). We have now added this on p. 14, lines 7-11.
We are unsure given the above how to deal with the reviewer’s first point about whether
should include a more general consideration of studies of migrants. We were going to include
Wiebe and Gerstmar (2010) but, in fact, the literature on potential “early” effects of
perature and other cues that mediate timing events in migrants (departure from wintering
unds, arrival on breeding grounds, and finally onset of laying) is actually quite large, but also
y contradictory (as the reviewer points out this “is sometimes (but not always) linked to shifts
arlier laying dates”). This could add considerably to the length of the paper and we are
scious that this has already increased due to our response to the AE from our initial Biology
ers submission (2nd paragraph of Discussion) and now from addressing other points raised by
two current reviewers (3rd paragraph of Discussion). In addition, we feel that this literature
t really relevant because our birds are not migratory; and this topic has been reviewed
where (e.g. Dunn 2004). We have added some text to highlight the contradiction between
jer’s field data (migratory starlings) and ours (largely resident) – but purely in the context of
lings - which we agree is important point (p. 14, lines 12-18). Again, if you consider our
onse here inadequate we would happily add a paragraph exploring this more generally.
or points:
ne 6 page 2. Spring should not be capitalized
rd deleted based on other reviewer’s comments.
ine 8 page 2. "Theoretical predictions" change wording. Predictions are not theoretical,
are actual predictions…
t changed.
ine 17 page 3. "seasonal reproductive development"-- vague--what is this exactly? Do you
n gonadal development?
t revised to “seasonal gonadal development”.
ine 32 page 3. Typo, there are 2 "that"s
t revised.
ines 34 and 36, page 3. Inconsistent style of quotations marks. However, I don't actually
k you need to use quotation marks here at all because these are standard, recognized terms
he field. Seems to be a general overuse of quotation marks around terms and phrases, and
ruse of italics (e.g. line 41) to try to indicate importance of words??
have been through the MS and tried to remove as many of these as possible.
he last paragraph of the introduction is misplaced because it presents the authors' results.
is information belongs in the results section). Rather, the authors should focus here on
otheses and predictions for the study, or justifying starlings as their study species. Maybe
e would be good to highlight differences in cues between resident versus migratory species
tell us where the starling fits in?
not uncommon for Introductions to refer to the key result, so we prefer to retain this last line.
address the migration issue above (points 1 and 2).
ne 55 page 4. Needs comma after year
t corrected.
ine 8 page 5. "several years" which years? Be precise
have added the years, but see our response to point P6L44 from reviewer # 1, and to
ments
ine 10 page 5. At how many nests were the clutches actually experimentally removed?
we discuss elsewhere, clutch removal did not affect sample size for laying date data; samples
s in Table 1 are accurate.
lines 8-22, page 5. Methodology: Some of the calculations and rationale to avoid including
ential renests from the experimentally-removed boxes were a bit hard to follow. Were the
oval females colour-banded? If so, it is easy to exclude their subsequent nests. Also, you
uld exclude any clutches that subsequently appeared in the nestboxes where the original
ch was removed (it was not clear from the methods whether you did so). Even if a new female
ed in the former box and it was her first clutch of the season, she may have been delayed in
ling because of the earlier presence of the experimental female, and so any clutch data from
experimental boxes needs to be excluded entirely from analyses.
e removal females were not banded, [authors response: all removal females were banded] it
danger that they move to a new box and lay a replacement clutch, although I don't know how
ly this is to occur in your population (how many available boxes are there and what
portion are occupied, and how far do females move between nesting attempts?). If females
potentially start a renest 5 days after egg removal as you say on line 20 page 5, then any
nest appearing in the population > 5 d post-removal could be considered a "suspect"
est… true??? The authors also state that the nestboxes were checked daily and so they can
ct any clutches initiated > 5 d post-removal. If so, they should use that date (5 days after the
experimental removal) as a simple and reliable criterion to exclude nests, rather than the 12
s…
have expanded and clarified this section to address these points (p. 5, lines 7-20).
Information about the software program(s) used should be added to the methods.
have added this to the Methods (p.7, lines 5-6).
First para of results: The month April needs to be spelled out? Actually, the spelling style of
month varies throughout the paper and needs to be consistent.
have standardised spelling of months throughout, using the full spelling.
Do the authors have information on the age of the females which they could enter into the
els? For most birds, female age has a significant effect on laying dates and clutch size so it
ld be informative to be able to control for this in the models.
don’t have age for many of our birds. For re-trapped individuals (birds encountered in more
one year) we have “relative age” from the year we first encountered them. This metric of
has no effect on any variable (clutch size, laying date, productivity) that we have analysed so
and because we only have this for a small sample of individuals we did not include this in the
ent analysis.
line 36 page 9 . and line 20 page 10. I don't like the term "peak nests" as there can be several
es (peaks) of initiation in the population. Rather use "first nests" and "renests" or "second
s" here and throughout.
have been through the MS and standardised the use of “first”, “replacement” and “second”
ches or broods.
Society Open
