Sharpening coarse-to-fine stereo vision by perceptual
learning: asymmetric transfer across the spatial frequency
spectrum
Roger W. Li, Truyet T. Tran, Ashley P. Craven, Tsz-Wing Leung, Sandy W. Chat and
Dennis M. Levi
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150523.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150523
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 September 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150523.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (M Fahle)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting paper on the specificity versus generalization of perceptual learning of
Gabor patches containing different spatial frequencies and (partly) being presented at orthogonal
orientations. The results are, to the best of my knowledge, new and they are certainly
noteworthy.
The paper is well written, the method section clearly describes the procedure and results and
discussion are self-explaining. The list of references is exhaustive. The authors are very explicit
about the fact that some of their results are contra-intuitive and difficult to explain, but I think
this is a strength rather than a weakness of the paper.
The first para of section 3.1 "Learning to improve 3D vision" is to a large part redundant with the
methods section and should be shortened.
In first line of section 2.2 "Visual stimulus", please add "of" after "center".
Maybe the authors could add a little control experiment to find the reason for the discrepancy
between their results and those obtained with random-dot stereograms (page 15) - but maybe this
should be published separately.
Also "More work is needed to determine the precise source of the improvements" (page 16) does
not sound too good, and maybe the authors could just shortly mention that there are indeed (not
undisputed) indications for plasticity on the level of early visual cortices even in adults.
Personally, I think the authors should think of a better argument than " ...but we think that is very
unlikely" (page 17).
Manfred Fahle
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not clear from reading the paper.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript describes important new observations on the nature of perceptual learning - a
remarkable property of the human visual system that is still poorly understood. There are two
main novel findings. 1) In a stereoacuity task, training at one spatial frequency produces a
benefit that transfers to a much wider range of test frequencies that in previous experiments with
contrast. This implies that spread of learning is not simply determined by the properties of low-
level mechanisms used in the task, but reflects a more complex interaction. 2) In some cases,
after learning has reached asymptotic performance, performance can be improved further by
training with a mismatched stimulus. Again, this indicates a complex interaction beyond low-
level mechanisms.
The paper is well written, and the results are clear and compelling. I have only minor suggestions
for improvement.
p.6 line 18 “the viewing distance, 50 cm (V1) or 2 m (V5, V10 and V20).” This was the first use of
the terms “V1” “V5” etc, and had to read ahead to sort out what they meant. It would help to
describe the stimuli used, defining these terms, before discussing scaling.
p.11 line 15-20. The idea that frequencies but fall within the bandwidth of an underlying channel,
sounds reasonable, but then why did H5 improve with V5 Training? And then why not with
V10 training? Perhaps make a statement noting that falling in the bandwidth must not be the
only factor? Or perhaps they have in mind a scheme that explains all this and I have
misunderstood?
P 14 line 35 is the difference in the bandwidth of transfer significant? It does not seem an
important point, so if its not significant, it’s a bit distracting to point it out.
p.16 line 45. In a relative disparity task like this, its widely thought that vergence noise should
not be limiting. This explains why stereoacuity can be much smaller than vergence noise. I
would agree that they cannot completely rule out a role for improved vergence, but it might be
worth noting that its not simple to see how that would help.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150523)
10th December 2015
Dear Dr Li
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150523 entitled
"Sharpening coarse-to-fine stereo vision by perceptual learning: Asymmetric transfer across the
spatial frequency spectrum" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150523
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the17th December 2015). If you do
not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
5
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Essi Viding
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Narayanan Srinivasan):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The paper was reviewed by two experts. In general, they find the paper interesting but have
some comments and suggestions that the authors need to address.
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper on the specificity versus generalization of perceptual learning of
Gabor patches containing different spatial frequencies and (partly) being presented at orthogonal
orientations. The results are, to the best of my knowledge, new and they are certainly
noteworthy.
The paper is well written, the method section clearly describes the procedure and results and
discussion are self-explaining. The list of references is exhaustive. The authors are very explicit
about the fact that some of their results are contra-intuitive and difficult to explain, but I think
this is a strength rather than a weakness of the paper.
6
The first para of section 3.1 "Learning to improve 3D vision" is to a large part redundant with the
methods section and should be shortened.
In first line of section 2.2 "Visual stimulus", please add "of" after "center".
Maybe the authors could add a little control experiment to find the reason for the discrepancy
between their results and those obtained with random-dot stereograms (page 15) - but maybe this
should be published separately.
Also "More work is needed to determine the precise source of the improvements" (page 16) does
not sound too good, and maybe the authors could just shortly mention that there are indeed (not
undisputed) indications for plasticity on the level of early visual cortices even in adults.
Personally, I think the authors should think of a better argument than " ...but we think that is very
unlikely" (page 17).
Manfred Fahle
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript describes important new observations on the nature of perceptual learning - a
remarkable property of the human visual system that is still poorly understood. There are two
main novel findings. 1) In a stereoacuity task, training at one spatial frequency produces a
benefit that transfers to a much wider range of test frequencies that in previous experiments with
contrast. This implies that spread of learning is not simply determined by the properties of low-
level mechanisms used in the task, but reflects a more complex interaction. 2) In some cases,
after learning has reached asymptotic performance, performance can be improved further by
training with a mismatched stimulus. Again, this indicates a complex interaction beyond low-
level mechanisms.
The paper is well written, and the results are clear and compelling. I have only minor suggestions
for improvement.
p.6 line 18 “the viewing distance, 50 cm (V1) or 2 m (V5, V10 and V20).” This was the first use of
the terms “V1” “V5” etc, and had to read ahead to sort out what they meant. It would help to
describe the stimuli used, defining these terms, before discussing scaling.
p.11 line 15-20. The idea that frequencies but fall within the bandwidth of an underlying channel,
sounds reasonable, but then why did H5 improve with V5 Training? And then why not with
V10 training? Perhaps make a statement noting that falling in the bandwidth must not be the
only factor? Or perhaps they have in mind a scheme that explains all this and I have
misunderstood?
P 14 line 35 is the difference in the bandwidth of transfer significant? It does not seem an
important point, so if its not significant, it’s a bit distracting to point it out.
p.16 line 45. In a relative disparity task like this, its widely thought that vergence noise should
not be limiting. This explains why stereoacuity can be much smaller than vergence noise. I
would agree that they cannot completely rule out a role for improved vergence, but it might be
worth noting that its not simple to see how that would help.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150523
7
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150523
MS Title: Sharpening coarse-to-fine stereo vision by perceptual learning: Asymmetric transfer
across the spatial frequency spectrum
MS Authors: Li, Roger; Tran, Truyet; Craven, Ashley; Leung, Tsz-Wing; Chat, Sandy; Levi,
Dennis
Contact Author: Roger Li
Contact Author Email: oroger@berkeley.edu, orogerli@hotmail.com
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Berkeley
Contact Author State: California
Contact Author Country: United States
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code:
Keywords: visual plasticity, stereopsis, vision enhancement, specificity and generalization
Abstract: Neurons in the early visual cortex are finely tuned to different low-level visual features,
forming a multi-channel system analyzing the visual image formed on the retina in a parallel
manner. However, little is known about the potential “cross-talk” among these channels. Here
we systematically investigated whether stereoacuity, over a large range of target spatial
frequencies, can be enhanced by perceptual learning. Using narrow-band visual stimuli, we
found that practice with coarse (low spatial frequency) targets substantially improves
performance, and that the improvement spreads from coarse to fine (high spatial frequency) 3D
perception, generalizing broadly across untrained spatial frequencies and orientations. Notably,
we observed an asymmetric transfer of learning across the spatial frequency spectrum. The
bandwidth of transfer was broader when training was at a high spatial frequency than at a low
spatial frequency. Stereoacuity training is most beneficial when trained with fine targets. This
broad transfer of stereoacuity learning contrasts with the highly specific learning reported for
other basic visual functions. We also revealed strategies to boost learning outcomes "beyond-the-
plateau". Our investigations contribute to understanding the functional properties of the network
subserving stereovision. The ability to generalize may provide a key principle for restoring
impaired binocular vision in clinical situations.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150523)
See Appendix A.
ppendix A
ponse to Reviewers
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper on the specificity versus generalization of perceptual learning of Gabor
ches containing different spatial frequencies and (partly) being presented at orthogonal orientations.
results are, to the best of my knowledge, new and they are certainly noteworthy.
The paper is well written, the method section clearly describes the procedure and results and
ussion are self-explaining. The list of references is exhaustive. The authors are very explicit about the
that some of their results are contra-intuitive and difficult to explain, but I think this is a strength
er than a weakness of the paper.
f. Fahle, thank you very much for your very constructive and valuable comments!!! We believe the
nuscript has been significantly improved.
The first para of section 3.1 "Learning to improve 3D vision" is to a large part redundant with the
hods section and should be shortened.
redundant part in the previous version has been removed as suggested. Thanks!
In first line of section 2.2 "Visual stimulus", please add "of" after "center".
s, that was a careless mistake... Now corrected, thank you!
Maybe the authors could add a little control experiment to find the reason for the discrepancy
ween their results and those obtained with random-dot stereograms (page 15) - but maybe this
uld be published separately.
nk you for the insightful suggestion. It will be interesting to see if our observations are replicable
g random-dot stereograms. That is absolutely something needed to be addressed in the future
dies. On a separate note, we are currently including random-dot stereograms in our ongoing
ceptual learning experiments.
Also "More work is needed to determine the precise source of the improvements" (page 16) does
sound too good, and maybe the authors could just shortly mention that there are indeed (not
isputed) indications for plasticity on the level of early visual cortices even in adults.
t sentence has been removed in the updated manuscript.
Personally, I think the authors should think of a better argument than " ...but we think that is very
kely" (page 17).
sentence is rephrased as follow:
, 2nd paragraph. “One simple explanation is that the observers had not yet reached a performance
eau in stage 1, but we believe that was not the case.”
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
This manuscript describes important new observations on the nature of perceptual learning - a
arkable property of the human visual system that is still poorly understood. There are two main
el findings. 1) In a stereoacuity task, training at one spatial frequency produces a benefit that
sfers to a much wider range of test frequencies that in previous experiments with contrast. This
lies that spread of learning is not simply determined by the properties of low-level mechanisms used
he task, but reflects a more complex interaction. 2) In some cases, after learning has reached
mptotic performance, performance can be improved further by training with a mismatched stimulus.
in, this indicates a complex interaction beyond low-level mechanisms.
The paper is well written, and the results are clear and compelling. I have only minor suggestions for
rovement.
greatly appreciate your valuable and thoughtful comments!!! They really helped clarify the unclear
nts and further improve our manuscript.
p.11 p.6 line 18 “the viewing distance, 50 cm (V1) or 2 m (V5, V10 and V20).” This was the first use
he terms “V1” “V5” etc, and had to read ahead to sort out what they meant. It would help to
cribe the stimuli used, defining these terms, before discussing scaling.
nks for pointing this out. We have added a few lines in the Methods to clarify the abbreviations used
he experiments.
tion 2.2, last 4 lines. “The following abbreviations are adopted to describe the Gabor patch
ameters: V1, V5, V10, V20 and H5, where the letter describes the carrier orientation (V: vertical, H:
zontal) and the number specifies the carrier spatial frequency expressed in cycles per degree.”
p.11 line 15-20. The idea that frequencies but fall within the bandwidth of an underlying channel,
nds reasonable, but then why did H5 improve with V5 Training? And then why not with V10 training?
haps make a statement noting that falling in the bandwidth must not be the only factor? Or perhaps
y have in mind a scheme that explains all this and I have misunderstood?
totally agree with the reviewer. We have removed that speculation in the revised manuscript.
P 14 line 35 is the difference in the bandwidth of transfer significant? It does not seem an important
nt, so if its not significant, it’s a bit distracting to point it out.
e there were only four data points involved in the non-linear regression, here we used another,
haps more sensitive and robust, statistical approach to reveal the difference in the bandwidth of
sfer between the two groups.
tion 3.6, 2nd paragraph. “… An additional improvement of 26% was obtained with subsequent direct-
ning with V1 stimuli (s15 vs. s29: paired-t=4.092, p=0.002), with no further significant change
erved for the other three higher spatial frequencies. Note that the effect of direct training observed
e was substantially weaker when compared to group LH in stage 2 (figure 3c, top panel vs. bottom
el, gray dashed curve; HLV1,s29/HLV1,s15 vs. LHV20,s29 /LHV20,s15: unpaired-t=3.267, p=0.004), as a
sequence of a stronger transfer effect in stage 1. All these findings clearly indicate that the transfer
earning was stronger when going from high to low spatial frequency than going in the opposite
ction. …”
p.16 line 45. In a relative disparity task like this, its widely thought that vergence noise should not be
ting. This explains why stereoacuity can be much smaller than vergence noise. I would agree that
y cannot completely rule out a role for improved vergence, but it might be worth noting that its not
ple to see how that would help.
have modified the arguments accordingly.
, 3rd paragraph. “Although we cannot completely rule out the possibility that in part the improved
eo-acuity might reflect improved vergence, and thus reduced vergence noise, previous work has
onstrated that stereopsis is robust to disjunctive eye movements [37]. We believe that the enhanced
al performance reflects the effects of genuine neural plasticity triggered by perceptual learning.”
Society Open
