Tooth serration morphologies in the genus Machimosaurus
(Crocodylomorpha, Thalattosuchia) from the Late Jurassic
of Europe
Mark T. Young, Lorna Steel, Stephen L. Brusatte, Davide Foffa, Yves Lepage
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140269.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140269
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140269.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrea Cau)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript is well-written and includes high-quality figures. I suggest its publication in the
current form, after a very few modifications. All particular comments and suggestions are
included in the attached pdf file. [Note: PDF available on request from the editorial office]
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Diego Pol)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There are no suppl materials
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript provides a detailed study of some of the most enigmatic and poorly studied
marine crocodylomorphs. In this sense it is a valuable contribution, the studied teeth are
illustrated with high quality photographs. I have made small comments on the attached PDF, but
there are two central aspects I would like to mention here: 1) The differences among the different
types of structures described (denticles, pseudodenticles, etc etc) is subtle and references to the
same figure are made for different structures. Given that enamel ornamentation is poorly studied
in crocodylomorphs (and other archosaurs as well) it would be essential that the authors
illustrate more clearly what are the structures described by adding labels to the photographs.
This will take minimal effort and will make the manuscript much more understandable, clear,
and easy to follow. I would consider this modification mandatory given that otherwise the data
they present is not entirely clear (at least to me) and therefore their main conclusions are hard to
evaluate). 2) From what I could see in the photos most of the features described seem to be
features of the outer enamel surface, in the sense that they likely are enamel crests, tubercles, or
ridges that outgrowth from the outer enamel surface. In contrast true denticles usually involve
alterations of the underlying dentine (e.g., as in the true denticles of ziphodont crocodyliforms). I
was left wondering if any of the features described in these marine crocs involve a change in the
underlying dentine or if in contrast they solely represent variations of the outer enamel surface.
Maybe this distinction (enamel only vs. enamel+dentine modifications) can be discussed if the
authors see any relevant information in this point. Besides these two points and the comments
made on the PDF [Note: PDF available on request from the editorial office] file I think once the
modifications are introduced the manuscript will be a valuable contribution on the dentition of
marine crocs.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter
25-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Young
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Tooth serration morphologies in the genus
Machimosaurus (Crocodylomorpha, Thalattosuchia) from the Late Jurassic of Europe") has now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance. Please
submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within this time
then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional circumstances,
extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once submitted your
paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre. When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this
to document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140269.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Dear Ms Wray,
We are thrilled by the positive comments from the two reviewers for our manuscript "Tooth
serration morphologies in the genus Machimosaurus (Crocodylomorpha, Thalattosuchia)
from the Late Jurassic of Europe" (RSOS-140269). Please find below a list of changes that
we have made in response to these reviews. Furthermore, we have attached a track-changed
version of the revised manuscript.
During the revision of this manuscript we have had to update the funding information. I
received funding to visit the Muséum national d'histoire naturelle (MNHN) in Paris by the
SYNTHESYS Project http://www.synthesys.info/. In the discussion, we have added one new
paragraph, and a new sentence in another paragraph in which we cite MNHN specimens I
saw during this visit. As such, my funding for that trip has been cited.
One unforeseen update we had to make was to the post-code for The Grant Institute, in our
author affiliations. This is due to a road naming exercise being completed for the University
of Edinburgh's 'The King's Buildings' campus, which has resulted in numerous new post
codes and road names for the various buildings.
Thank you for your consideration, and we look forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Mark Young (on behalf of Lorna Steel, Stephen Brusatte, Davide Foffa and Yves Lepage)
Reviewer: 1 (Andrea Cau)
We have reviewed the labelled PDF from reviewer 1, and have made suggested change:
(1) : Citing Jouve et al. (in press) - Maroccosuchus. Moreover, Phosphatosaurus and
Elosuchus also show parallels with Machimosaurus dentition. As I saw all three genera
during my MHNH visit, I have cited both recent relevant papers, and MNHN specimens I
have seen firsthand.
The second point reviewer 1 made was use of the name Machimosaurus buffetauti. As the
paper describing this species has been accepted by Royal Society Open Science, we have left
the name in. However, we request that should this paper be accepted for publication, that it is
published after the taxonomic revision paper. That way Machimosaurus buffeatuti will not
become a nomen nudum.
Reviewer: 2 (Diego Pol)
We have reviewed the labelled PDF from reviewer 2, and have made suggested changes:
(1) : On page 3, reviewer 2 requested we briefly explain how our denticle definition differed
from that of Prasad & Broin (2002). We have added in the following text:
" The definition used herein is a revised version of that used by Prasad & Broin [14],
as incipient denticles are not always clearly individualised, and may not form a contiguous
series."
(2) : On page 6, reviewer 2 thought it was clear that the undulating enamel ridges were
different from serrations. We agree that is true with our macrophotos, however, without
optical aids they can look somewhat similar. We have changed the sentence to:
" Where these undulations are very pronounced, they can be mistaken for serrations
when seen without optical aids."
(3) : On page 9, reviewer 2 brought up a very good point: labelling for the figures. This is
something we should have done initially. Therefore, we have revised the figures, labelling the
various serration, and serration-like, morphologies.
(4) : On page 29 - table 1, reviewer 2 asked two questions:
a. How does denticle size relates to tooth size?
Response: It seemingly doesn't, as Dakosaurus and Plesiosuchus both have species with large
teeth (apicobasal length 6 cm or more). However, only Dakosaurus has macroziphodont
dentition (Andrade et al. 2010, JVP). Plesiosuchus, even though it has teeth as large as
Dakosaurus, retains microziphodont serrations (Young et al. 2012 PLOS ONE). We are still
unsure what factor denticle size is related to. In a previous paper we hypothesised it could be
due to prey-type or feeding ecology (Andrade et al. 2010, JVP).
b. Do microziphodont teeth have a larger denticle density count?
Response: When microziphodont serrations form contiguous rows, yes they have a higher
denticle density (Andrade et al. 2010, JVP). However, some basal taxa have microscopic
denticles that form short rows of 2-10 denticles (Young et al. 2013, JSP). In such taxa, it is
difficult to get reliable denticle densities.
Andrade MB, Young MT, Desojo JB, Brusatte SL. (2010). The evolution of extreme hypercarnivory
in Metriorhynchidae (Mesoeucrocodylia: Thalattosuchia) based on evidence from microscopic
denticle morphology. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 30 (5):1451–1465.
Young MT, Brusatte SL, Andrade MB, Desojo JB, Beatty BL, Steel L, Fernández MS, Sakamoto M,
Ruiz-Omeñaca JI, Schoch RR. (2012). The cranial osteology and feeding ecology of the
metriorhynchid crocodylomorph genera Dakosaurus and Plesiosuchus from the Late Jurassic of
Europe. PLOS ONE 7 (9): e44985. (doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044985)
Young MT, Andrade MB, Brusatte SL, Sakamoto M, Liston J. (2013). The oldest known
metriorhynchid super-predator: a new genus and species from the Middle Jurassic of England, with
implications for serration and mandibular evolution in predacious clades. Journal of Systematic
Palaeontology 11 (4): 475–513.
We have reviewed the two questions reviewer 2 asked in his response email, and have made
suggested changes:
(1) : The differences among the different types of structures described (denticles,
pseudodenticles, etc etc) is subtle and references to the same figure are made for different
structures. Given that enamel ornamentation is poorly studied in crocodylomorphs (and other
archosaurs as well) it would be essential that the authors illustrate more clearly what are the
structures described by adding labels to the photographs. This will take minimal effort and
will make the manuscript much more understandable, clear, and easy to follow. I would
consider this modification mandatory given that otherwise the data they present is not entirely
clear (at least to me) and therefore their main conclusions are hard to evaluate).
Response: This is a very good comment, one which we should have thought of during
manuscript preparation. As noted above, we have labelled the relevant structures on the
figures. We hope this will make the manuscript more clear and easy to follow.
(2) : From what I could see in the photos most of the features described seem to be features
of the outer enamel surface, in the sense that they likely are enamel crests, tubercles, or ridges
that outgrowth from the outer enamel surface. In contrast true denticles usually involve
alterations of the underlying dentine (e.g., as in the true denticles of ziphodont
crocodyliforms).
I was left wondering if any of the features described in these marine crocs involve a change
in the underlying dentine or if in contrast they solely represent variations of the outer enamel
surface. Maybe this distinction (enamel only vs. enamel+dentine modifications) can be
discussed if the authors see any relevant information in this point.
Response: Our denticle definition is one that is slightly modified from Prasad & Broin
(2002), i.e. the denticles do not need to be clearly individualised by interdenticular sulci.
These definitions do not have a histological component (a dentine+enamel structure). As
reviewer 2 mentions, some definitions require denticles to be formed as localised, discrete
dentine+enamel structures.
In our previous papers, we have examined the external enamel microstructure, and the
variation that is present. This is how we discovered the cryptic, incipient denticles in basal
geosaurine metriorhynchids and the teleosaurid 'Steneosaurus' obtusidens. The question as to
whether cryptic enamel structures have an underlying dentine basis is a very good question.
However, it is one we do not have an answer to at present. A broad, comparative tooth
histological study of Thalattosuchia is needed, and it is a project we hope to do in the near
future.
Society Open
