Generalized transformations and coordinates for static
spherically symmetric general relativity
James M. Hill and Joseph O'Leary
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171109.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171109
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 20 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171109.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
When I read the first part in your first sentence in the abstract, I thought you were going to derive
in a simple manner the Kerr solution in Boyer–Lindquist coordinates. I wonder if your approach
can be generalized to do such.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171109)
22-Dec-2017
Dear Mr O'Leary,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Generalized transformations and coordinates for static
spherically symmetric general relativity") have now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
3
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Jan-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171109
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
4
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Carlos Nunez (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
The authors should address the referee's comments and resubmit if they believe the referee is
mistaken. If not, the paper has little or no relevance
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
5
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
When I read the first part in your first sentence in the abstract, I thought you were going to derive
in a simple manner the Kerr solution in Boyer–Lindquist coordinates. I wonder if your approach
can be generalized to do such.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171109)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171109.R1)
27-Feb-2018
Dear Mr O'Leary,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Generalized transformations and
coordinates for static spherically symmetric general relativity" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
6
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Carlos Nunez (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
eneralized transformations and coordinates for static
herically symmetric general relativity
mes M. Hill and Joseph O’Leary
viewer’s Report
The authors claim to have found a new solution to the spherically symmetric vacuum
d equations in general relativity, despite the fact that Birkhoff’s Theorem, whose original
m dates from the 1920s, states that all such solutions are isometric to some submanifold
the maximal extension of the line element usually attributed to Karl Schwarzschild.
ey do this by not taking the usual route of performing a coordinate transformation to
ove the off-diagonal term in the general spherically symmetric metric before solving
vacuum field equations.
Unfortunately, all that does is make one’s task harder: when one does a coordinate
nsformation is not mathematically relevant. In fact, the authors’ claim is completely
ermined by their own comments in sections 4 and 5 of the paper, where they give
rdinate transformations that reduce their claimed new metric to the standard form
Schwarzschild. This means that their solution is isometric to the usual Schwarzschild
ution, or at least some part of its maximal extension. There might be some interest in
king out which part of the maximal extension their new coordinate system covers, but
s is not addressed.
The rest of the paper deals with a claimed generalisation of the Eddington-Finkelstein
Kruskal-Szekeres transformations that allow one to extend the standard Schwarzschild
tric. These did not look to me to be adding anything of interest to the usual treatment
hese transformations.
1
Appendix B
Manuscript ID RSOS-171109
Dear Alice Power,
Thank you for your email of 23/12/2017. We have carefully considered all the reviewer’s comments
and we have made changes accordingly.
On page 1, in the abstract we have added, “The new solution avoids the coordinate singularity often
associated with the Schwarzschild solution and is achieved by obtaining a more suitable coordinate
chart”.
On page 2, we have clarified which region the newly presented solution covers. This suggests a more
suitable coordinate chart than that of Schwarzschild. This is given in lines 12-17.
On page 5, we added “As inferred by the so-called Birkhoff's theorem, the important question arises
as to whether Eq. (4.4) is locally isometric to the Schwarzschild solution. The answer is in the
affirmative and the specific details are given in Sec. (5). Although the new solution is locally
isometric to the Schwarzschild solution, the authors note the new coordinate chart given by Eq. (4.4)
avoids the coordinate singularity at r=r_0 and allows for radially in/out going particles to pass freely
between this region which is normally associated with Eddington-Finkelstein coordinates”.
On page 8, we have added “Finally, the authors note that this approach can be easily generalised to
the Reissner-Nordstrom solution in GR”.
We trust that these changes now meet with your approval.
Yours sincerely,
Mr. Joseph O’Leary and Prof. James M. Hill.
Society Open
