Hypergravity-assisted chemical liquid deposition of nano-
granular film on the inner surface of a quartz tube
Y. K. Shen, X. Q. He, X. Gu, Z. Liu and Z. H. He
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180722.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180722
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 May 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 13 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 29 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180722.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors present a comprehensive study of the deposition of silver films onto the inner
surface of quartz tubes. To carry this work out they spin a precursor solution inside the tube,
using centrifugal force to spread it, followed by chemical conversion to the metal via external
heating. The work is interesting, particularly as it presents for the first time this novel synthetic
route to coating the inside of tubes, which the authors have named: hypergravity assisted
chemical liquid deposition (HACLD).
I would suggest a change in the title, ‘a single layer granular film’ is confusing, since it is not a
single atomic layer. Additionally throughout there are some minor spelling and grammatical
errors that should be corrected, also US and UK spelling are used inconsistently.
I would suggest the experimental section be re-written in the style of a synthetic experimental
section found in the literature, for example the amount in grams and moles of each compound
should be given, such that the work could be reproduced by researchers in another institution.
Where the experimental states: ‘and inject the needed amount of Ag solution into the tube’ this
should be changed to silver precursor solution, since it is not a solution of silver metal, this
should also be changed in the figure.
In the results and discussion, since an unusual sample labelling protocol is used, I would suggest
referring to the table on first mention: ‘take solution SC as an example (see table 1 for labelling
convention)’.
When referring to figure 4b the paper states: ‘at higher rotation speed, uniform and continuous
film formed’ – and yet it is quite clear that the film is not uniform and continuous from the
picture included, in fact this is even commented on in the UV/vis section, where the yellowing of
the thinner edges is described. The authors should specify the length of the section from the
middle that is continuous, perhaps by giving thickness across the section and including XPS data
confirming that the film is continuous across this area.
In the discussion of the resistance it is stated that ‘particle connection in the film should play a
key role in forming percolation paths’ – I am concerned that ‘should’ is not sufficient and there
should be more evidence presented for this conclusion, for example could the connectivity shown
in the SEM images support this, is there any XPS data for this?
Again, use of the word ‘should’ suggests that this paper is presenting postulations and not solid
evidence for the findings. In The paragraph beginning: ‘The first stage should mainly be related
to the evaporation of the solvent…’ more evidence of what is happening is needed. The TGA data
given is of solutions, so it seems quite obvious that they would all look the same whilst the
solvent is evaporating. The authors should present the TGA of the isolated silver compounds, to
probe more deeply the decomposition profile of these precursors.
More than once the authors describe the ‘melting’ of Ag films, given that the processing
temperatures are not above 340 °C, and the melting point of silver is almost 1000 °C, this is
incorrect. Do the authors mean to refer to the sintering of the silver particles?
In the section describing figure 7, it is stated ‘those particles should be metallic Ag’ – the authors
should be certain, therefore more analysis is required.
The section beginning: ‘the number of particle is not proportional to the Ag content of the two
films. There are much more particles in film FB than FA. Some silver must have missed for film
FA during the preparation process’ needs clarification, as it is not clear what is meant by this
statement.
The SEM image shown in figure 7e shows island growth, and is not indicative of cylindrite
growth of the particles as is stated. This should be corrected.
There are major concerns with the quality of the XRD data, and the conclusions drawn from
3
these. It is stated: ‘the diffraction peaks in all the XRD patterns of the four samples clearly show
that the films FB to FE are crystalline and of metallic Ag’ – this is certainly not the case, for A (1
wt.%) and B (2 wt.%) the XRD patterns are featureless, and cannot be used to confirm the
formation of Ag. Further analysis would be needed and this discussion should be reworded.
Additionally, considering the poor resolution of the data collected for all samples, a shift in the
2<U+03B8> of 0.29° should not be commented on, since the resolution is not good enough to peak pick to
that level of accuracy.
There are further inconsistencies in the discussion of the XRD data, the paper states: ‘FWHM is
almost eh same for all 5 films, also suggesting that the particles are comparable in size, this is in
agreement with SEM’. Firstly, since some of the XRD patterns show no peaks, I am not sure how
FWHM data was extracted? Secondly, the SEM section describes particulates ranging from 40 –
70 nm. This is not consistent and should be corrected.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
References need updating. A comparison with other processes/techniques should be listed in the
introduction.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180722.R0)
18-Jul-2018
Dear Mr shen:
Title: Hypergravity assisted chemical liquid deposition of single layer granular film on the inner
surface of the quartz tubes
4
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180722
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper before 10-Aug-2018. Please note that the revision deadline will
expire at 00.00am on this date. If we do not hear from you within this time then it will be
assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional circumstances, extensions may be
possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of
revision so we urge you to make every effort to fully address all of the comments at this stage. If
deemed necessary by the Editors, your manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original
reviewers for assessment. If the original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
5
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180722
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
6
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors present a comprehensive study of the deposition of silver films onto the inner
surface of quartz tubes. To carry this work out they spin a precursor solution inside the tube,
using centrifugal force to spread it, followed by chemical conversion to the metal via external
heating. The work is interesting, particularly as it presents for the first time this novel synthetic
route to coating the inside of tubes, which the authors have named: hypergravity assisted
chemical liquid deposition (HACLD).
I would suggest a change in the title, ‘a single layer granular film’ is confusing, since it is not a
single atomic layer. Additionally throughout there are some minor spelling and grammatical
errors that should be corrected, also US and UK spelling are used inconsistently.
I would suggest the experimental section be re-written in the style of a synthetic experimental
section found in the literature, for example the amount in grams and moles of each compound
should be given, such that the work could be reproduced by researchers in another institution.
Where the experimental states: ‘and inject the needed amount of Ag solution into the tube’ this
should be changed to silver precursor solution, since it is not a solution of silver metal, this
should also be changed in the figure.
In the results and discussion, since an unusual sample labelling protocol is used, I would suggest
referring to the table on first mention: ‘take solution SC as an example (see table 1 for labelling
convention)’.
When referring to figure 4b the paper states: ‘at higher rotation speed, uniform and continuous
film formed’ – and yet it is quite clear that the film is not uniform and continuous from the
picture included, in fact this is even commented on in the UV/vis section, where the yellowing of
the thinner edges is described. The authors should specify the length of the section from the
middle that is continuous, perhaps by giving thickness across the section and including XPS data
confirming that the film is continuous across this area.
In the discussion of the resistance it is stated that ‘particle connection in the film should play a
key role in forming percolation paths’ – I am concerned that ‘should’ is not sufficient and there
should be more evidence presented for this conclusion, for example could the connectivity shown
in the SEM images support this, is there any XPS data for this?
Again, use of the word ‘should’ suggests that this paper is presenting postulations and not solid
evidence for the findings. In The paragraph beginning: ‘The first stage should mainly be related
to the evaporation of the solvent…’ more evidence of what is happening is needed. The TGA data
given is of solutions, so it seems quite obvious that they would all look the same whilst the
solvent is evaporating. The authors should present the TGA of the isolated silver compounds, to
probe more deeply the decomposition profile of these precursors.
7
More than once the authors describe the ‘melting’ of Ag films, given that the processing
temperatures are not above 340 °C, and the melting point of silver is almost 1000 °C, this is
incorrect. Do the authors mean to refer to the sintering of the silver particles?
In the section describing figure 7, it is stated ‘those particles should be metallic Ag’ – the authors
should be certain, therefore more analysis is required.
The section beginning: ‘the number of particle is not proportional to the Ag content of the two
films. There are much more particles in film FB than FA. Some silver must have missed for film
FA during the preparation process’ needs clarification, as it is not clear what is meant by this
statement.
The SEM image shown in figure 7e shows island growth, and is not indicative of cylindrite
growth of the particles as is stated. This should be corrected.
There are major concerns with the quality of the XRD data, and the conclusions drawn from
these. It is stated: ‘the diffraction peaks in all the XRD patterns of the four samples clearly show
that the films FB to FE are crystalline and of metallic Ag’ – this is certainly not the case, for A (1
wt.%) and B (2 wt.%) the XRD patterns are featureless, and cannot be used to confirm the
formation of Ag. Further analysis would be needed and this discussion should be reworded.
Additionally, considering the poor resolution of the data collected for all samples, a shift in the
2<U+03B8> of 0.29° should not be commented on, since the resolution is not good enough to peak pick to
that level of accuracy.
There are further inconsistencies in the discussion of the XRD data, the paper states: ‘FWHM is
almost eh same for all 5 films, also suggesting that the particles are comparable in size, this is in
agreement with SEM’. Firstly, since some of the XRD patterns show no peaks, I am not sure how
FWHM data was extracted? Secondly, the SEM section describes particulates ranging from 40 –
70 nm. This is not consistent and should be corrected.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
References need updating. A comparison with other processes/techniques should be listed in the
introduction.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180722.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180722.R1)
29-Aug-2018
Dear Mr Shen:
Title: Hypergravity assisted chemical liquid deposition of nano-granular film on the inner surface
of a quartz tube
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180722.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
8
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Responses to the Editor and Reviewers'
Comments
The authors wish to thank editor for his efforts in processing the article
and also would like to thank the referees for their precious time and
constructive comments/suggestions. All of the comments/suggestions
of the editor and reviewers have been considered seriously, and relevant
amendments have been made accordingly. Major amendments are
highlighted with underlined text in the revised manuscript.
Editor:
Please include the following statements alongside the other end
statements. As we cannot publish your manuscript without these end
statements included, if you feel that a given heading is not relevant to
your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Authors:
We are grateful for the editor’s suggestion. The following statements
(Ethics statement, Data accessibility, Competing interests, Authors’
contributions, Acknowledgements and Funding statement) have been
added at the end of the revised manuscript. The description can be found
on page 12.
Reviewer #1:
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors present a comprehensive study of the deposition of silver
films onto the inner surface of quartz tubes. To carry this work out
they spin a precursor solution inside the tube, using centrifugal force
to spread it, followed by chemical conversion to the metal via external
heating. The work is interesting, particularly as it presents for the first
time this novel synthetic route to coating the inside of tubes, which the
authors have named: hypergravity assisted chemical liquid deposition
(HACLD).
1. I would suggest a change in the title, ‘a single layer granular film’
is confusing, since it is not a single atomic layer. Additionally
throughout there are some minor spelling and grammatical errors that
should be corrected, also US and UK spelling are used inconsistently.
Authors:
We would like to thank the reviewer for this suggestion. We have
adjusted the title and changed ‘single layer granular film’ to ‘nano-
granular film’. The revision can be found in the revised manuscript, on
page 1.
2. I would suggest the experimental section be re-written in the style of
a synthetic experimental section found in the literature, for example
the amount in grams and moles of each compound should be given,
such that the work could be reproduced by researchers in another
institution. Where the experimental states: ‘and inject the needed
amount of Ag solution into the tube’ this should be changed to silver
precursor solution, since it is not a solution of silver metal, this should
also be changed in the figure.
Authors:
The experimental section about the preparation of the silver (Ag)
precursor solutions has been rewritten to show more experimental
details. The amount of each compound has been given in grams and
moles. The description can be found on page 4. The "Ag solution" has
been completely replaced by "Ag precursor solution" in the article and
the Figure (a total of 19 places).
Figure 1. Schematics and process conditions of chemical liquid
deposited uniform and transparent Ag film.
3. In the results and discussion, since an unusual sample labelling
protocol is used, I would suggest referring to the table on first
mention: ‘take solution SC as an example (see table 1 for labelling
convention)’.
Authors:
We added this statement in the results and discussion section. ‘Take
the solution SC was taken as an example (see Table 1 for labelling
convention).’ The relevant revision can be found in the revised
manuscript on page 7.
4. When referring to figure 4b the paper states: ‘at higher rotation
speed, uniform and continuous film formed’ – and yet it is quite clear
that the film is not uniform and continuous from the picture included,
in fact this is even commented on in the UV/vis section, where the
yellowing of the thinner edges is described. The authors should specify
the length of the section from the middle that is continuous, perhaps by
giving thickness across the section and including XPS data confirming
that the film is continuous across this area.
Authors:
The length and positional definition of the uniform and continuous
film is added in the paper, which was formed in the middle of the
heated portion of the quartz tube (about 50 mm). A temperature
distribution curve (see Figure 1c in the revised manuscript) was added
to clarify this issue. The discussion can be found on page 5. The
continuity of the film is also discussed in the paper with the SEM
images (surface and cross section, see Figure 7 in the revised
manuscript), and the XPS test may not be effective in proving the
continuity of the Ag film.
5. In the discussion of the resistance it is stated that ‘particle
connection in the film should play a key role in forming percolation
paths’ – I am concerned that ‘should’ is not sufficient and there should
be more evidence presented for this conclusion, for example could the
connectivity shown in the SEM images support this, is there any XPS
data for this?
Authors:
In the experimental results, the resistivity of the film is not
proportional to the particle coverage of the film, and the conductivity of
the film should be related to the percolation paths formed by the particle
connection, and more research is needed to prove this transportation
issue. Considering that this is not the focus of this paper, nor is it in the
scope of material preparation, we removed this sentence in the paper.
6. Again, use of the word ‘should’ suggests that this paper is
presenting postulations and not solid evidence for the findings. In The
paragraph beginning: ‘The first stage should mainly be related to the
evaporation of the solvent…’ more evidence of what is happening is
needed. The TGA data given is of solutions, so it seems quite obvious
that they would all look the same whilst the solvent is evaporating. The
authors should present the TGA of the isolated silver compounds, to
probe more deeply the decomposition profile of these precursors.
Authors:
The thermal decomposition behavior of the Ag precursor solution
prepared by Ag citrate have been discussed in detail by X. L. Nie [1].
They used the combined DSC-TGA data to explain that the first stage
of the weight loss was due to the evaporation of the solvent; and then
the only endothermic peak maximum at 190 <U+25E6>C was due to the thermal
decomposition of Ag citrate. We revised and quoted his article in the
revised manuscript on page 8. The TGA data of the Ag precursor
solutions and blank solvent in the manuscript were given to illustrate
the Ag content of different Ag precursor solutions.
7. More than once the authors describe the ‘melting’ of Ag films, given
that the processing temperatures are not above 340 °C, and the
melting point of silver is almost 1000 °C, this is incorrect. Do the
authors mean to refer to the sintering of the silver particles?
Authors:
The Ag film turns from the thin and dense granular structure at
nominal 290 °C, into a thick and drop-like structure at nominal 340 °C.
The melting temperature of nanoparticles could be much lower than
that of the macroparticles of the same crystalline structure, because of
the higher surface energy as compared to the bulk energy. Anyway, to
avoid misunderstanding, we will not use the word of “melting”.
Relevant revisions can be found in the revised manuscript on page 8
and page 9.
8. In the section describing figure 7, it is stated ‘those particles should
be metallic Ag’ – the authors should be certain, therefore more
analysis is required.
Authors:
More XRD and XPS are performed to clarify the statement for FA
and FB. The results supported, but not verified that the particles are
metallic Ag for FA and FB. What is certain is that, they are not AgO. It
is not the main concern of the manuscript to present those results.
Therefore, we would like to remove the statement.
More detailed analysis is given below.
XPS (X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy) on the film FA and film
FB (see Figure 2). Figure 2a shows C1s spectra and their
deconvolution. The C1s spectra have been fitted by three peaks
corresponding to carbon in different chemical environments. The peak
at 284.98 eV is assigned to C-C and C-H hydrocarbon bonds. The peak
at 286.13 eV is due to C-OH and C-O bonds while the smaller peak at
288.48 eV can be attributed to carbon atoms bound to oxygen with a
double bond C=O [2]. Figure 2(b) shows Ag 3d XPS spectra and their
deconvolution, for Ag NPs in film FA. The Ag 3d5/2 and Ag 3d3/2 core
level binding energies for Ag NPs sample appear at 368.03 eV and
374.03 eV. The shift (-0.17 eV) of the peaks is related to the change in
the internal energy level caused by the decrease of the density of states
on the Fermi surface as the size of the Ag NPs becomes smaller.
Figure 2(c) shows Ag 3d XPS spectra and their deconvolution, for Ag
NPs in film FB. The Ag 3d5/2 and Ag 3d3/2 core level binding energies
for Ag NPs sample appear at 368.28 eV and 374.28 eV, respectively in
good agreement with bulk Ag metallic values [3].
Figure 2. C1s and Ag 3d XPS spectra of Ag NPs in film FA and film
FB.
9. The section beginning: ‘the number of particle is not proportional to
the Ag content of the two films. There are much more particles in film
FB than FA. Some silver must have missed for film FA during the
preparation process’ needs clarification, as it is not clear what is
meant by this statement.
Authors:
The films were prepared by precursor solutions with different Ag
contents. Comparable in particle size of film FA and film FB, the
number of particle (SEM surface coverage: 15%, 63%) is not
proportional to the Ag content (Nominal mass fraction: 1.0%, 2.0%;
DGA mass fraction: 0.76%, 1.57%) of the two films, and we are
analyzing and looking for the possible causes. Avoiding confusion to the
reader, we removed this sentence in the paper.
10. The SEM image shown in figure 7e shows island growth, and is not
indicative of cylindrite growth of the particles as is stated. This should
be corrected.
Authors:
The crystal growth pattern discussed in the paper was changed from
cylindrite growth to island growth, supported by Figure 7b) to g) in the
revised manuscript. The relevant revision can be found in the revised
manuscript on page 9.
11. There are major concerns with the quality of the XRD data, and
the conclusions drawn from these. It is stated: ‘the diffraction peaks in
all the XRD patterns of the four samples clearly show that the films FB
to FE are crystalline and of metallic Ag’ – this is certainly not the
case, for A (1 wt.%) and B (2 wt.%) the XRD patterns are featureless,
and cannot be used to confirm the formation of Ag. Further analysis
would be needed and this discussion should be reworded. Additionally,
considering the poor resolution of the data collected for all samples, a
shift in the 2<U+03B8> of 0.29° should not be commented on, since the
resolution is not good enough to peak pick to that level of accuracy.
Authors:
Thanks to the reviewer for the meaningful suggestion. We are sorry
for the inaccuracy in analyzing the XRD results. In order to increase
the accuracy of the conclusions, we have added restrictions on the
objects (film FC to film FE) in the discussion of the XRD results. The
relevant revision can be found in the revised manuscript on page 10.
Regarding the issue of the XRD diffraction peak shift, three Ag
films (named film FD1, film FD2 and film FD3) were prepared on the
flat glass slide at different annealing temperature with Ag precursor
solution D by using a sol coating method. All of the diffraction peaks
of the films match those of Ag (111), (200), (220) and (311) crystal
planes (Ag-PDF # 04-0783). The offsets of the diffraction peaks (2<U+03B8> =
+0.15° for film FD1, +0.17° for film FD2, and +0.13°for film FD3,
respectively) in the XRD patterns is smaller than that of film FD (-
0.29° for film FD). Then the relative shift between the diffraction
peaks of the films (film FD1 to FD3) is 0.04°, which is much smaller
than the relative offset between the films (film FC to FE, 0.51°), and
that cannot be ignored. Although the difference in the offset of the
diffraction peak is not very large, it is an error analysis method of the
XRD data on the curved surface, which is different from the plane.
These work may provide some references for the analysis of the films
prepared with the hypergravity method in the future. In the end, we
recommend retaining this part of the discussion in the paper.
Figure 3. X-ray diffractions of the Ag films deposited on the flat
glass slide with different annealing temperature by Ag precursor
solution D.
12. There are further inconsistencies in the discussion of the XRD
data, the paper states: ‘FWHM is almost the same for all 5 films, also
suggesting that the particles are comparable in size, this is in
agreement with SEM’. Firstly, since some of the XRD patterns show no
peaks, I am not sure how FWHM data was extracted? Secondly, the
SEM section describes particulates ranging from 40-70 nm. This is not
consistent and should be corrected.
Authors:
Similar to the question 11, we added restrictions on the objects (film
FC to film FE) in the discussion of the XRD results. The size of the Ag
particles in the SEM images was re-evaluated and the description was
consistently changed. The relevant revision can be found in the revised
manuscript on page 9 and page 10.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
1. References need updating. A comparison with other
processes/techniques should be listed in the introduction.
Authors:
We are grateful for the reviewer’s suggestion. Comparisons of tube
inside film preparation with different processes/techniques have been
already listed in the list (see Table 1). The relevant revision can be found
in the revised manuscript on page 3.
Table 1. A list of comparisons of tube inside film preparation with
different processes/techniques.
Methods Year and author Tube size and Film material
material and thickness
PVD 1992, J. A. Ø120 mm, Cr-Nb, 7-17
Sheward steel µm
2016, D. Kottfer Ø200-300 Ti, 1.3-3.9 µm
mm, steel
CVD 1986, H. Itoh Ø10 mm, steel TiN, 12 µm
2013, H. Ø4.4 mm, DLC, 529 nm
steel
Kousaka
2014, R. Hatada Ø25 mm, steel Ag-DLC, 150
nm
2017, Y. Xu Ø0.9 mm, DLC, -- nm
glass and
lucalox
Electroplating 2014, L. D. Sun Ø9 mm, Ti TiO2, 5-15 µm
2017, C. J. Ø10 mm, Ti TiO2, 0.1-1
µm
Xiang
Electrical 2000, O. Ø13 mm, Ta Al, 7.1-8.1 µm
explosion Demokan
Dip-coating 2007, W. C. Gu Ø50 mm, steel Ceramic, 300
µm
2018, S. Ayata Ø16 mm, Al- ZrO2-DLC,
Cu-Mg 182 nm
References:
1 Nie, X., Wang, H., Zou, J. 2012 Inkjet printing of silver citrate
conductive ink on PET substrate. Applied Surface Science. 261, 554-
560. (10.1016/j.apsusc.2012.08.054)
2 Carroll, K. J., Reveles, J. U., Shultz, M. D., Khanna, S. N.,
Carpenter, E. E. 2011 Preparation of Elemental Cu and Ni
Nanoparticles by the Polyol Method: An Experimental and Theoretical
Approach. The Journal of Physical Chemistry C. 115, 2656-2664.
(10.1021/jp1104196)
3 Prieto, P., Nistor, V., Nouneh, K., Oyama, M., Abd-Lefdil, M., Díaz,
R. 2012 XPS study of silver, nickel and bimetallic silver–nickel
nanoparticles prepared by seed-mediated growth. Applied Surface
Science. 258, 8807-8813. (10.1016/j.apsusc.2012.05.095)
Society Open
