Modelling human perception processes in pedestrian
dynamics: a hybrid approach
A. Colombi and M. Scianna
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160561.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160561
Review timeline
Original submission: 29 July 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 January 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160561.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It's clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors present a modification of the social force model by Helbing which accounts for
different individual perceptions. I find this idea quite interesting and think that it adds new
insights into the dynamics, but the mathematical model and analysis is not consistent.
My main concern is the following:
On page 6 the authors introduce the function w_ij - the so called perception function. They
propose three possible choices - (2.6), (2.7) and (2.8). In the first two cases the integral of the
function is equal to 1, in the last case not. In the section of the main results they clearly state that
w_ij has to be a probability density - so Theorem 4.1 only holds for (2.6) and (2.7). In Corrolary 4.1
you state that you recover equation 4.6 as R->0. As R->0 (2.6) converges to a Delta Dirac which is
not an L1 function (so the assumptions of the theorem do not hold any more).
In general I think it's problematic to compare the behavior of the three choices of w_ij, since the
last one has a totally different weight. If its support shrinks the influence shrinks, while this is not
the case for the first two choices. So apart from the mistakes in the mathematical analysis I find it
difficult to draw any conclusions from the analysis as well as the numerical simulations.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors discuss a Helbing-like social force model, including a, in their words, multiscale
description of human perception. Though the authors distinguish between a localized perception
and a distributed perception, it is not clear how this relates to multiscale description nor to a
hybrid approach, as indicated in the title. Moreover, the behavioural needs for this distinction
have not been indicated.
3
The authors introduce an extension to their model, and compare two different ways of including
perception. However, it is not clear why the authors include these extensions, why their model is
better than existent models, and what the quality of their model is (lack of calibration and
validation).
For each application (both in chapter 3 and chapter 4) a new description of the model is given.
This way, some parts of the model are repeated, while it is still not clear what the model consists
of. Moreover, it suggests that a generically applicable model does not exist. A structured
description of the full model in a separate chapter would increase readability, including a
complete list of behavioural assumptions. In the description, an experimental plan is missing.
What do the authors want to show in these numerical experiments?
The authors have compared their model with some experimental data. However, the model
seems to describe walking on the operational level, while the lane choice investigated by the
authors corresponds to route choice. The latter would require model intelligence on the tactical
level, thus it seems not to be a realistic comparison. How did the authors come to this setup?
What do they want to test? How to include the shabby clothing or the children in the model?
Some minor comments:
Models with statistical distributions for as parameter setting do cover heterogeneity.
The literature overview does not seem to be complete, but due to a lack of focus, it is hard to
judge what is relevant.
Why do the authors choose speed as control variables, not acceleration as in other models?
The assumption to include all pedestrians within a circular sector in the interaction set seems to
be questionable, as not all people are talking and thus can be noticed when they are located
behind a construction.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please, find my commento in the file in attachment (Appendix A).
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160561)
20-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Scianna,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Modeling human perception processes in pedestrian
dynamics: a multiscale hybrid approach") have now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 12-Jan-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160561
5
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
You should produce a revised version of the manuscripts according to the suggestions of the
referees. Please produce also a rebuttal letter to the criticisms/comments/suggestions of the
referees explaining all changes done in the revision.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors present a modification of the social force model by Helbing which accounts for
different individual perceptions. I find this idea quite interesting and think that it adds new
insights into the dynamics, but the mathematical model and analysis is not consistent.
6
My main concern is the following:
On page 6 the authors introduce the function w_ij - the so called perception function. They
propose three possible choices - (2.6), (2.7) and (2.8). In the first two cases the integral of the
function is equal to 1, in the last case not. In the section of the main results they clearly state that
w_ij has to be a probability density - so Theorem 4.1 only holds for (2.6) and (2.7). In Corrolary 4.1
you state that you recover equation 4.6 as R->0. As R->0 (2.6) converges to a Delta Dirac which is
not an L1 function (so the assumptions of the theorem do not hold any more).
In general I think it's problematic to compare the behavior of the three choices of w_ij, since the
last one has a totally different weight. If its support shrinks the influence shrinks, while this is not
the case for the first two choices. So apart from the mistakes in the mathematical analysis I find it
difficult to draw any conclusions from the analysis as well as the numerical simulations.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors discuss a Helbing-like social force model, including a, in their words, multiscale
description of human perception. Though the authors distinguish between a localized perception
and a distributed perception, it is not clear how this relates to multiscale description nor to a
hybrid approach, as indicated in the title. Moreover, the behavioural needs for this distinction
have not been indicated.
The authors introduce an extension to their model, and compare two different ways of including
perception. However, it is not clear why the authors include these extensions, why their model is
better than existent models, and what the quality of their model is (lack of calibration and
validation).
For each application (both in chapter 3 and chapter 4) a new description of the model is given.
This way, some parts of the model are repeated, while it is still not clear what the model consists
of. Moreover, it suggests that a generically applicable model does not exist. A structured
description of the full model in a separate chapter would increase readability, including a
complete list of behavioural assumptions. In the description, an experimental plan is missing.
What do the authors want to show in these numerical experiments?
The authors have compared their model with some experimental data. However, the model
seems to describe walking on the operational level, while the lane choice investigated by the
authors corresponds to route choice. The latter would require model intelligence on the tactical
level, thus it seems not to be a realistic comparison. How did the authors come to this setup?
What do they want to test? How to include the shabby clothing or the children in the model?
Some minor comments:
Models with statistical distributions for as parameter setting do cover heterogeneity.
The literature overview does not seem to be complete, but due to a lack of focus, it is hard to
judge what is relevant.
Why do the authors choose speed as control variables, not acceleration as in other models?
The assumption to include all pedestrians within a circular sector in the interaction set seems to
be questionable, as not all people are talking and thus can be noticed when they are located
behind a construction.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Please, find my commento in the file in attachment
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160561)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160561.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
The revised version of the paper has improved significantly, the presentation is clear and sound.
The mathematical results confirm the numerical results, but do not add very much knew insights.
I think the paper is nevertheless an interesting contribution, as it combines experiments,
modeling and a bit of mathematical analysis.
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
8
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
I think that your revision is fine now.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160561.R1)
01-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Scianna,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Modeling human perception processes
in pedestrian dynamics: a hybrid approach" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
9
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_9
The revised version of the paper has improved significantly, the presentation is clear and sound.
The mathematical results confirm the numerical results, but do not add very much knew insights.
I think the paper is nevertheless an interesting contribution, as it combines experiments,
modeling and a bit of mathematical analysis.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_10
I think that your revision is fine now.
Referee report on the paper
Modeling human perception processes in pedestrian dynamics: a multiscale hybrid
approach
Manuscript Number: RSOS-160561
Journal: Royal Society Open Science
1. Summary In this paper a first order microscopic mathematical model for crowd
dynamics is presented. Pedestrians moves following different forces: social,
physical, obstacles, etc... The main feature of the model is the introduction of
a sort of ”perception” parameter. The single pedestrian may perceive the other
pedestrian either as localized or distributed entities. This perception modifies the
behavior of the pedestrian. Numerical simulations are compared with some few
experimental tests.
2. Main remarks
(a) This paper contains two main contributions: a) the analysis of the perception
mechanism; b) the original comparison with some ”experimental data”.
(b) For the perception mechanism, it is unclear the connection with some pre-
vious studies of the same authors [18], or by the same group [21]. Is this
perception mechanism an original feature proposed in this paper? Or it is
inspired to similar mechanisms proposed in previous works? In the paper, I
didn’t find a clear answer to this question. Also, even if the idea behind this
perception mechanism is clear, the psycological framework is not really well
assessed, and the description remains qualitative in nature.
(c) The experimental part, even if not presented within a rigorous framework,
is interesting and worth considering. It should be useful for the reader a
deeper and more formal presentation of the data, with the distributions and
the statistics proper of this kind of works. For instance, it is not really clear
from the paper, the comparison between the simulated and the real walkers,
if not for the macroscopic behavior of the chosen lane. Are there other data
about the running time or the precise path of the single individuals?
(d) Concerning the theoretical results, namely Thms. 4.1 and 4.2 and Corollary
4.1, it seems to me that they are quite obvious and just a natural consequence
of the definitions. In particular, Thm. 4.1 just says that if we localize the dis-
tributed perception, we find the localize one. Not very surprising. However,
I don’t understand the remark after Thm. 4.2.
3. Other remarks
(a) The ”contact” part of the velocity is not clearly described in the presentation
part of the paper, and just few lines are devoted in the numerical examples, to
describe a specific mechanism in eq. (3.8). It is a poor and not well motivated
description.
(b) p. 3, l. 41: here and elsewhere, the authors cite Section (b). I believe there in
a problem in the label of the sections, and it is Section 3 (b).
(c) p. 4, l. 42: there is a subsection (a), but not (b). Not a problem, but the
organization is a bit confused. I prefer subsection 2.1 etc...
(d) p. 15, l. 57, formula (4.1): I believe that the second xi is a x j .
4. Final advice The paper deals with a quite specific class of models for pedestrian
flows. The main feature of this paper, added to a quite complete bibliography,
is in the perception mechanism, whose originality is not well emphasized by the
authors. There is some simple comparisons with real data. In view of these
remarks and the other comments before, I suggest a deep major revision of the
paper, following closely my indications.
Modeling human perception processes in pedestrian dynamics: a hybrid
approach
by A. Colombi and M. Scianna
Revised version, submitted to Royal Society Open Science
ponse to the Referees
Authors would like to thank the Referees for their interesting and appropriate comments on
manuscript. All Referees’ suggestions have been then employed on a point-by-point basis:
ease of review and cross-referencing, each of the Referees’ comments has been reported
lack font, followed by our response in blue font. The Authors think that they have been
to make all the required corrections and integrations and that, thanks to the Referees’
gestions, the work significantly improved.
articular, as it will be explained more in details below, the paper underwent a substantial
sion, which gave rise to a new outline of the work. In fact, after an introductive section,
ch first deals with the different types of mathematical models for crowd dynamics and then
uses on the Helbing-like approach, we present and discuss the experimental test at the basis
ur study. In Section 3, we clarify the assumptions underlying our mathematical approach
present all the model components (as suggested by Referee 2). In particular, we focus
the interpersonal repulsive term, whose dependence on individual perception processes is
oduced and commented, as it is the innovative model ingredient. Section 4 then contains
omputational analysis of our method by means of exploratory case studies, which first
oduce the experimental setting and then investigate the effect of the different types of
ception on the behaviour of walkers approaching small groups of static individuals. A
ussion on the results obtained by our approach, as well as on possible research perspectives,
roposed in Section 5. The paper is finally equipped with an analytical Appendix, whose
pose is to formalize and justify from a mathematical point of view the results obtained in
e of the previously proposed numerical realizations.
EREE 1
authors present a modification of the social force model by Helbing which accounts for
erent individual perceptions. I find this idea quite interesting and think that it adds new
ghts into the dynamics, but the mathematical model and analysis is not consistent.
thank the Referee for his/her positive valuation of the idea underlying our work. In
revised version of the paper, we tried to improve the model and the relative computa-
al/analytical studies.
main concern is the following:
page 6 the authors introduce the function wij the so called perception function. They
pose three possible choices (2.6), (2.7) and (2.8). In the first two cases the integral of the
ction is equal to 1, in the last case not. In the section of the main results they clearly state
t wij has to be a probability density so Theorem 4.1 only holds for (2.6) and (2.7). In
ollary 4.1 you state that you recover equation 4.6 as R <U+2192> 0. As R <U+2192> 0 (2.6) converges
Delta Dirac which is not an L1 function (so the assumptions of the theorem do not hold
more).
agree with the Referee that the Dirac Delta is not a L1 function. However, the Theorem
s not focus on the convergence of the functions wij to the Dirac Delta, it rather gives an
mate of the difference between the repulsive velocity components resulting from either an
ctive/localized or a subjective/distributed perception when Rij collapses. Further, in the
of, we do not introduce delta functions, but we only use the assumption that the family of
ception functions wij defined in Eqs. (3.17)-(3.18) is L1 , with integral over their support
al to 1. In this respect, for the sake of clarity, we also reviewed the text before and after
Theorem.
eneral I think it’s problematic to compare the behavior of the three choices of wij , since
last one has a totally different weight. If its support shrinks the influence shrinks, while
is not the case for the first two choices. So apart from the mistakes in the mathematical
lysis I find it difficult to draw any conclusions from the analysis as well as the numerical
ulations.
Referee focuses on the central point of our research, that probably was not clearly explained
he original version of the paper. The three different choices of the perception function wij
e been set to model completely different types of perception that a pedestrian can in
ciple have of the surrounding persons. In particular, apart from an objective localized
ception, a pedestrian may have:
<U+0088> a subjective perception of the neighboring individuals, which derives from a simple uncer-
tainty of their position (e.g., due to poor visibility): such a situation can be implemented
by given to wij the form of a probability distribution;
<U+0088> a subjective perception of a neighboring individual, which instead derives from a psycho-
logical enhancement of the territorial effect. In this cases, the pedestrian overestimates
the presence of the field individual and therefore a standard probability distribution is
no longer a good option for wij . Rather, we have to use functions wij that are able to
model the fact that the pedestrian considers the field individual certainly occupies the
entire region of influence Iij . A possible modeling choice is to employ a full occupancy
function, as the one proposed in Eq. (3.19).
iously some other types of perception, and of corresponding functions wij , can be in-
uced. However, the comparison between the real-world experiments and our simulation
comes have confirmed that, at least from a qualitative point of view, the proposed options
wij are consistent. For instance, the full occupancy function in Eq. (3.19) has been able
eproduce the behavior of the test pedestrians in the case of field individual involving sloppy
sed student or children, i.e., when the psychology enters the picture.
tried to make clearer all these considerations in the revised text of the paper.
EREE 2
authors discuss a Helbing-like social force model, including a, in their words, multiscale
cription of human perception. Though the authors distinguish between a localized percep-
and a distributed perception, it is not clear how this relates to multiscale description nor
hybrid approach, as indicated in the title.
agreed with the Referee that the adjective “multiscale” was not proper for our approach
en if this terminology is typically used in similar works): therefore, we removed it both from
title and from the text. However, we maintained the term “hybrid” since, in the case of
tially distributed perceptions, the repulsive contribution in the pedestrian velocity results in
ntegro-differential term, which has an intrinsically hybrid nature. We explained this point
ter in the text in the revised version of the manuscript.
Pag. 11: “The terminology hybrid is used since we have the coupling of both types
of perceptions and relative mathematical structures.”
reover, the behavioural needs for this distinction have not been indicated. The authors
oduce an extension to their model, and compare two different ways of including perception.
wever, it is not clear why the authors include these extensions, why their model is better
n existent models, and what the quality of their model is (lack of calibration and validation).
point raised by the Referee is of particular importance and was not clearly discussed in
previous version of the paper. We have indeed completely reorganized the article making
g effort in this respect. Now we first present the real-world experiments, commenting in
e details the behavior of the test pedestrians. In particular, we make clear that, when sub-
ivity and psychology enter the picture, the walkers showed unexpected dynamics (i.e., they
ed for the overcrowded lane). These empirical observations have been the starting point
ur research, since the obtained results could have been hardly reproduced by traditional
bing-like models. The main limitations of these types of approach, according to us, relies
he repulsive term, which is not able to describe different territorial effects characterizing
estrians in different environmental/personal conditions. We indeed decided to include in
aditional purely discrete Helbing-like model (enriched by the evolution of the individual
ing direction) a new concept, i.e., the possibility that the repulsive velocity component can
end on the perception that a walker has of the neighboring persons. In this perspective,
had to introduce a proper function, i.e., wij , able to model how a pedestrian i perceives
approaches another individual j. Given the motivations underlying our study, the resulting
erical outcomes eventually show that the proposed model is able to describe pedestrian
avior in cases where more traditional approaches fail (i.e., in the case of subjective percep-
s). The proposed model is of course based on a given set of parameters: however, they
e been estimated taking advantage both of the existing and established literature and of
onable physical consideration, as it is now more clearly stated in the text and summarized
able 1. Finally, we now explicitly state that our aim is to qualitatively reproduce, i.e.,
east from a phenomenological point of view, the behavior of the test pedestrians empir-
ly observed. However, as commented in the discussion section, we are aware that more
ntitative validations of our approach are needed.
each application (both in chapter 3 and chapter 4) a new description of the model is
n. This way, some parts of the model are repeated, while it is still not clear what the
del consists of. Moreover, it suggests that a generically applicable model does not exist.
tructured description of the full model in a separate chapter would increase readability,
uding a complete list of behavioural assumptions.
completely agree with the Referee. The revised version of the work indeed contains a
Section 3 which focuses only on the general description of each model component, with
underlying list of assumptions and parameter estimate. The specific details relative to the
erent simulation settings are instead more properly given in Section 4. In this respect, it is
ul to underline that the proposed approach can be applied to any scenario of pedestrian
amics, not only to the cases presented in this paper.
he description, an experimental plan is missing. What do the authors want to show in these
erical experiments?
rder to clarify our research plan, we now first present and comment the experimental results,
ch are at the basis of the proposed model. Then, we describe our numerical outcomes,
paring them to the empirical observations. In this respect, we remark that our simulations
w how pedestrian behavior driven by subjectivity and psychology can not be reproduced by
itional Helbing-like approaches, but rather requires a mathematical description of human
ception processes, as the one proposed in this article.
authors have compared their model with some experimental data. However, the model
ms to describe walking on the operational level, while the lane choice investigated by the
hors corresponds to route choice. The latter would require model intelligence on the tactical
l, thus it seems not to be a realistic comparison. How did the authors come to this setup?
at do they want to test? How to include the shabby clothing or the children in the model?
clarified in the revised version of the work, the aim of our model is to reproduce, at least at
ualitative/phenomenological level, the pedestrian behavior observed in real-world tests. In
respect, a critical determinant that allows a consistent comparison between experimental
numerical outcomes is the choice of the lane. Further, the proposed simulation settings
not need to explicitly include shabbily dressed and/or young field individuals: rather, it
ufficient that the model describes their impact on the subjectivity, and on the resulting
avior, of the sample pedestrians. This is done by defining the proper type of perception
ction. In other words, the proposed model is able to describe the behavior of pedestrians
he case of the different set of fields individuals by simply changing the type of perception
lved in the repulsive term. In particular, a subjective overestimation of the presence of the
individuals (as given by the full occupancy function introduced in Eq. (3.19)) has been
wn to imply a dramatic enhancement of the walker territorial effect, which is exactly what
pened in the real world in the case of shabbily dressed students or children.
e minor comments:
dels with statistical distributions for as parameter setting do cover heterogeneity. The
ature overview does not seem to be complete, but due to a lack of focus, it is hard to
ge what is relevant.
road literature overview is included in the Introduction section. In this respect, we first
ent some of the classical experimental approaches describing crowd dynamics. The focus is
n shifted on mathematical methods. In particular, we differentiate macroscopic, mesoscopic
microscopic techniques, providing some useful references. The latter type of models is
lly treated in more details, since it is the starting point of our approach. In this respect,
recall the series of papers by Helbing and coworkers. We end the Introduction by citing
ouple of interesting works by Fujiyama, which deal with the concept of perception and
resulting use of the space by pedestrians in their repulsive behavior. Since this topic is
ost entirely new in the modeling literature, unfortunately we can not include other proper
hematical references.
ng the text, we instead give the references of the experimental and modeling papers which
consulted to obtain reasonable parameter estimates.
ally, in the conclusion section, we cite and comment a number of empirical and sociological
ks dealing with panic in crowd dynamics since, according to us, our model can eventually
e care of this aspect.
y do the authors choose speed as control variables, not acceleration as in other models?
ng entities (such as humans and animals) are not inanimate objects, passively dragged
external stimuli and prone to the Newtonian laws of inertia: rather, they are intelligent
viduals able to actively control their movement without undergoing inertial effects, at least
reasonable speeds, i.e., they can decide to stop and change direction of motion. These
cepts allow to neglect inertia and therefore to state that the velocity of a pedestrian,
not his/her acceleration, is proportional to the acting “forces”. Such a relation, called
rdamped force-velocity response, allows to describe selected pedestrian behavior by a direct
nomenological postulation of the velocity contributions, i.e., by a first-order model and not
a second-order model, which instead uses acceleration as control variable. In the revised
k, we more clearly discuss this point: in particular, we start with a system of second-order
Es describing pedestrian behavior and then explicitly comment all the assumptions (and
tive mathematical passages) that allow the use of a first-order approach.
finally remark that the use of first-order models to describe the dynamics of living entities
used in different fields of applied mathematics, which range from cell developmental biology
ivil engineering problems, as also stated by the references included in the text.
assumption to include all pedestrians within a circular sector in the interaction set seems
e questionable, as not all people are talking and thus can be noticed when they are located
ind a construction.
Referee is right. It is in fact worth to notice that the definition of Si may allow a generic
estrian i to react to the presence of individuals also behind structural elements. In a first
roximation, this assumption is consistent as a walker can perceive another person also by
ring his/her voice. However, reasonable reductions of the pedestrian interaction set may
required in specific scenarios or geometries of the domain (e.g., presence of soundproofed
/or of opaque walls), not accounted, for the sake of simplicity, in this work which instead
uses on the different types of perceptions and the resulting individual repulsive behavior.
now clarify this aspect in the text.
Pag. 9: “It is worth to notice that the definition of Si may allow a pedestrian to
react to the presence of individuals behind structural elements (for instance walls
or columns): in a first approximation, this is consistent as a walker can perceive
another person also by hearing his/her voice. However, reasonable reductions of the
pedestrian interaction set may be required in specific scenarios or geometries of the
domain (e.g., presence of soundproofed and/or of opaque walls), not accounted,
for the sake of simplicity, in this work.”
EREE 3
. Summary. In this paper a first order microscopic mathematical model for crowd dynam-
ics is presented. Pedestrians moves following different forces: social, physical, obstacles,
etc... The main feature of the model is the introduction of a sort of “perception” pa-
rameter. The single pedestrian may perceive the other pedestrian either as localized or
distributed entities. This perception modifies the behavior of the pedestrian. Numerical
simulations are compared with some few experimental tests.
. Main remarks.
<U+0088> This paper contains two main contributions: a) the analysis of the perception
mechanism; b) the original comparison with some “experimental data”.
<U+0088> For the perception mechanism, it is unclear the connection with some previous
studies of the same authors [18], or by the same group [21]. Is this perception
mechanism an original feature proposed in this paper? Or it is inspired to similar
mechanisms proposed in previous works? In the paper, I didn’t find a clear answer
to this question. Also, even if the idea behind this perception mechanism is clear,
the psychological framework is not really well assessed, and the description remains
qualitative in nature.
By substantially rewriting the manuscript, we made a huge effort to clarify the
points raised by the Referee. In particular, we now explicitly explain that we start
with a traditional Helbing-like social force model, enriched by the evolution of the
pedestrian gazing direction introduced in a previous paper of ours, i.e., [17]. We
then include within such a modeling framework the concept of human perception,
which treated in an innovative way, not present in any other paper published by
our group. Further, we now discuss and comment in more details the phenomeno-
logical interpretation of the different perception functions defined in this work, also
through proper examples. In particular, we assume that a localized perception may
derive by an objective approach that a pedestrian has of the field individuals, con-
sidered as they are, i.e., pointwise obstacles. Otherwise, subjective perceptions may
characterize either the uncertainly that a pedestrian has of the position of a field
individual due to environmental conditions (e.g., poor visibility) or a psychological
overestimation of the presence of nearby persons due, for example, to fear. Such a
last aspect is the rationale underlying the unexpected behavior of the test pedestri-
ans in the case of the presence of shabbily dressed students or of children and, in
fact, it can be numerically reproduced only by the use of the full occupancy func-
tion given in Eq. (3.19). We deal with these considerations both in the modeling
section and in the conclusive one.
In the discussion section of the work, we also clearly state that the inclusion of
human subjectivity and psychology in a mathematical study is not trivial at all. In
this respect, we do not expect that our approach is neither exhaustive nor definitive:
rather, it is promising since, at least from a purely phenomenological/qualitative
point of view, our results have been able to reproduce experimental observations.
Further analysis and considerations have however to be done to find a good corre-
spondence between possible forms of the perception function w and the territorial
effect characterizing real-world individuals in different contexts and situations.
<U+0088> The experimental part, even if not presented within a rigorous framework, is inter-
esting and worth considering. It should be useful for the reader a deeper and more
formal presentation of the data, with the distributions and the statistics proper of
this kind of works. For instance, it is not really clear from the paper, the comparison
between the simulated and the real walkers, if not for the macroscopic behavior of
the chosen lane. Are there other data about the running time or the precise path
of the single individuals?
We first want to thank the Referee for appreciating the experimental part of the
paper, which is not ordinary in this kind of works. We indeed took advantage of
his/her valuable comment: we now present the empirical test more rigorously in
the dedicated Section 2. In the revised version of the work, we also give more
details on the experimental settings and on how the resulting outcomes have been
collected. In this respect, since we focus on the number of pedestrians opting for
each of the two lanes in the different configurations, we do not need particular
statistics except from those summarized in the plot in Fig. 1, which can be easily
compared with the graph in Fig. 4 (i.e., relative to the numerical results). In the
revised text, we also clearly state that other walker migratory determinants were
observed but neglected since they did not represent useful quantifications to further
describe pedestrian behavior. In fact, both the time needed to reach the bus stop
and the individual paths were characterized by a substantially high variability (for
instance, the walking times needed to cross the experimental domain ranged from
2 to 4 minutes, i.e., a too large interval of values). However, such aspects did
not affect our overall analysis, since we only aimed to qualitatively characterize
individual decision and phenomenology.
<U+0088> Concerning the theoretical results, namely Thms. 4.1 and 4.2 and Corollary 4.1,
it seems to me that they are quite obvious and just a natural consequence of the
definitions. In particular, Thm. 4.1 just says that if we localize the distributed
perception, we find the localize one. Not very surprising.
We agree with the Referee that the analytical study is not particularly complex
nor innovative. We indeed removed it from the main part of the article while
adding a proper appendix. However, we underline that such a theoretical analysis is
important to formalize and validate, from a mathematical point of view, the results
obtained in the simulations. Further, the proposed theoretical results generalize in
the case of a couple of moving pedestrians what has been numerically observed
in the case of a single walker approaching a static individual. We clarified these
aspects in the text, both in the introduction and in the appendix itself.
However, I don’t understand the remark after Thm. 4.2.
We rephrased the sentence and clarified the concept.
Pag. 26: “Theorem (A 2) states that if the region of influence Iij collapses,
the corresponding repulsive contribution vanishes. In other words, when
Rij <U+2192> 0, pedestrian i no longer takes into account of the presence of
field individual j, even if the repulsive term is determined by a subjective
perception given by the full occupancy function which is in principle set
to model a psychological overestimation that i has of the presence of j.
This is consistent with the results obtained from the numerical simulations
summarized in the right panel of Fig. 8.”
. Other remarks.
<U+0088> The “contact” part of the velocity is not clearly described in the presentation part
of the paper, and just few lines are devoted in the numerical examples, to describe
a specific mechanism in eq. (3.8). It is a poor and not well motivated description.
In the revised version of the paper, all the model ingredients were collected in the
same Section 3. In particular, an entire paragraph is now devoted to describe and
comment the contact component of pedestrian dynamics, as well as the underlying
phenomenological motivation. We further refer the readers to one of our previous
works [17] to have a complete sensitivity analysis of the parameters relative to the
contact velocity term.
<U+0088> p. 3, l. 41: here and elsewhere, the authors cite Section (b). I believe there in a
problem in the label of the sections, and it is Section 3 (b).
The Referee is right, we corrected the labels accordingly to the new outline of the
paper.
<U+0088> p. 4, l. 42: there is a subsection (a), but not (b). Not a problem, but the
organization is a bit confused. I prefer subsection 2.1 etc...
In the revised version of the paper, there are subsections (a) and (b) both for
Section 3 and for Section 4. We could not change the specific labels (i.e., (a) and
(b) instead of 3.1 and similar) since it is a default option of the template of the
journal.
<U+0088> p. 15, l. 57, formula (4.1): I believe that the second xi is a xj .
The Referee is completely right, we corrected the typos.
. Final advice. The paper deals with a quite specific class of models for pedestrian flows.
The main feature of this paper, added to a quite complete bibliography, is in the percep-
tion mechanism, whose originality is not well emphasized by the authors. There is some
simple comparisons with real data. In view of these remarks and the other comments
before, I suggest a deep major revision of the paper, following closely my indications.
We really hope that the corrections and modifications, that substantially improved our
work, will satisfy the Referee, as all of them were made according to the Referee’s
comments and suggestions.
Society Open
