Extragalactic radio surveys in the pre-Square Kilometre
Array era
Chris Simpson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170522.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170522
Review timeline
Original submission: 17 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 June 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170522.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Detailed comments to author
(line numbers cited are the numbers written close to the text in the review copy)
This paper is an excellent review of continuum surveys, focusing particularly on the galaxy
evolution science underlying the survey. It is a very useful summary of where we currently
stand.
Title “Cosmological radio surveys in the pre-Square Kilometre Array era” is a bit misleading as
the review doesn’t discuss the cosmology (i.e. the study of the origin, structure, and evolution of
the universe) that will be done with these surveys, but instead confines itself to the study of the
galaxies which are particles within the universe. It is also confined to radio continuum surveys,
not mentioning the many HI surveys. So a better title might be “Continuum radio surveys in the
pre-Square Kilometre Array era”
First line of the introduction “All radio surveys are cosmological”. This is obviously incorrect, so
not a good way to start the review! For example, many radio surveys aren’t even extragalactic, let
alone cosmological. But even the radio surveys that the author intends to refer to aren’t really
cosmological. They are studies of the galaxies, which are mere corks bobbing along on the sea of
dark matter moved by cosmological forces, rather than studies of the cosmology. True, some
radio surveys are used to do excellent cosmology, but those aren’t actually discussed in this
review. The author should think of a better opening line.
Line 8.” the source counts showed strong evolution inconsistent with a Euclidean, Steady State
Universe [4].” This is incorrect, as the Ryle and Scheuer paper was based on the 2C survey which
was subsequently found to contain many spurious sources caused by sidelobe confusion (see e.g.
Mills, B. Y., 1984, in The Early Years of Radio Astronomy. Edited by W.T. Sullivan, III.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p.147). Once these were removed, the data were
consistent with either big band or steady state. A convincing argument against the steady state
theory was not made until the 1957 publication by Scheuer ( Proceedings of the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, 53, 764) where he examined the statistical properties of the noise below the
detection threshold. Later surveys (e.g. 3CR) were of course unambiguous in supporting the big
bang.
Figure 2: the symbols are shown twice in the legend.
Line 189: a line or two needs to be inserted explaining the radio-FIR correlation. The first
mention, in line 189, assumes the reader already knows what it is.
Section 6: it would be useful to mention the result by Rees+ 2016MNRAS.455.2731R that whether
an AGN is radio-loud or not seems to depend only on the mass, which explains why hi-z RL
AGN are HERG and low-z are LERG.
Line 409 “Even with these selection criteria, a sample optimized for finding HzRGs will still
contain many lower-redshift interlopers.” This is not true for the infrared-faint radio sources,
now known to be a class of HzRGs, for which virtually all members have z>2. See e.g.
Collier+2014, mnras, 439,545, It would be remiss to discuss HzRG without mentioning the
extensive literature on IFRS. Oddly, they do receive a brief mention in line 435, but with a citation
to an unpublished thesis rather than to the many published papers, which is quite inappropriate
for a broad review.
3
Line 479. Rather than citing the websites, better references for askap, lofar, and meerkat are
Johnston+2008, Experimental Astronomy, 22, 151 ; van Haarlem+ 2013, A&A, 556, A2; and Jonas,
2009, IEEE Proceedings, 97, 1522 respectively.
Section 8. I agree with the author that the continuum surveys with lofar, askap, and meerkat will
be extremely important, but some mention should be made of the almost-equally-important
VLASS survey (Murphy+2015)
Section 8: it would be worth mentioning the complementary strengths of the various surveys:
EMU and LOFAR are distinguished by their tens of millions of sources, Meerkat by its depth, and
VLASS by its high spatial
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Matt Jarvis)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Although it is impossible to cover all aspects of radio continuum surveys in a relatively short
review, this is a very well written and comprehensive review on radio surveys and should be
published.
subject to very few minor comments that I list below.
Figure. 1 - It would be useful to state what spectral index is used for the lines on this figure.
Reference missing on line 312
In the future section I would suggest adding links to the DES SNe deep fields and the LSST deep
drilling fields, which I believe are also the MIGHTEE fields and supply optical data.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170522)
14-Jun-2017
Dear Chris,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170522 entitled
"Cosmological radio surveys in the pre-Square Kilometre Array era" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170522
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Jun-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Rob Ivison
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Detailed comments to author
(line numbers cited are the numbers written close to the text in the review copy)
This paper is an excellent review of continuum surveys, focusing particularly on the galaxy
evolution science underlying the survey. It is a very useful summary of where we currently
stand.
Title “Cosmological radio surveys in the pre-Square Kilometre Array era” is a bit misleading as
the review doesn’t discuss the cosmology (i.e. the study of the origin, structure, and evolution of
the universe) that will be done with these surveys, but instead confines itself to the study of the
galaxies which are particles within the universe. It is also confined to radio continuum surveys,
not mentioning the many HI surveys. So a better title might be “Continuum radio surveys in the
pre-Square Kilometre Array era”
First line of the introduction “All radio surveys are cosmological”. This is obviously incorrect, so
not a good way to start the review! For example, many radio surveys aren’t even extragalactic, let
alone cosmological. But even the radio surveys that the author intends to refer to aren’t really
cosmological. They are studies of the galaxies, which are mere corks bobbing along on the sea of
dark matter moved by cosmological forces, rather than studies of the cosmology. True, some
radio surveys are used to do excellent cosmology, but those aren’t actually discussed in this
review. The author should think of a better opening line.
Line 8.” the source counts showed strong evolution inconsistent with a Euclidean, Steady State
Universe [4].” This is incorrect, as the Ryle and Scheuer paper was based on the 2C survey which
was subsequently found to contain many spurious sources caused by sidelobe confusion (see e.g.
Mills, B. Y., 1984, in The Early Years of Radio Astronomy. Edited by W.T. Sullivan, III.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p.147). Once these were removed, the data were
consistent with either big band or steady state. A convincing argument against the steady state
theory was not made until the 1957 publication by Scheuer ( Proceedings of the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, 53, 764) where he examined the statistical properties of the noise below the
detection threshold. Later surveys (e.g. 3CR) were of course unambiguous in supporting the big
bang.
Figure 2: the symbols are shown twice in the legend.
Line 189: a line or two needs to be inserted explaining the radio-FIR correlation. The first
mention, in line 189, assumes the reader already knows what it is.
7
Section 6: it would be useful to mention the result by Rees+ 2016MNRAS.455.2731R that whether
an AGN is radio-loud or not seems to depend only on the mass, which explains why hi-z RL
AGN are HERG and low-z are LERG.
Line 409 “Even with these selection criteria, a sample optimized for finding HzRGs will still
contain many lower-redshift interlopers.” This is not true for the infrared-faint radio sources,
now known to be a class of HzRGs, for which virtually all members have z>2. See e.g.
Collier+2014, mnras, 439,545, It would be remiss to discuss HzRG without mentioning the
extensive literature on IFRS. Oddly, they do receive a brief mention in line 435, but with a citation
to an unpublished thesis rather than to the many published papers, which is quite inappropriate
for a broad review.
Line 479. Rather than citing the websites, better references for askap, lofar, and meerkat are
Johnston+2008, Experimental Astronomy, 22, 151 ; van Haarlem+ 2013, A&A, 556, A2; and Jonas,
2009, IEEE Proceedings, 97, 1522 respectively.
Section 8. I agree with the author that the continuum surveys with lofar, askap, and meerkat will
be extremely important, but some mention should be made of the almost-equally-important
VLASS survey (Murphy+2015)
Section 8: it would be worth mentioning the complementary strengths of the various surveys:
EMU and LOFAR are distinguished by their tens of millions of sources, Meerkat by its depth, and
VLASS by its high spatial
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Although it is impossible to cover all aspects of radio continuum surveys in a relatively short
review, this is a very well written and comprehensive review on radio surveys and should be
published.
subject to very few minor comments that I list below.
Figure. 1 - It would be useful to state what spectral index is used for the lines on this figure.
Reference missing on line 312
In the future section I would suggest adding links to the DES SNe deep fields and the LSST deep
drilling fields, which I believe are also the MIGHTEE fields and supply optical data.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170522)
See Appendix A.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170522.R1)
19-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Simpson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Extragalactic radio surveys in the pre-
Square Kilometre Array era" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Detailed comments to author
(line numbers cited are the numbers written close to the text in the review copy)
| This paper is an excellent review of continuum surveys, focusing
| particularly on the galaxy evolution science underlying the survey. It
| is a very useful summary of where we currently stand.
|
| Title “Cosmological radio surveys in the pre-Square Kilometre Array
| era” is a bit misleading as the review doesn’t discuss the cosmology
| (i.e. the study of the origin, structure, and evolution of the
| universe) that will be done with these surveys, but instead confines
| itself to the study of the galaxies which are particles within the
| universe. It is also confined to radio continuum surveys, not
| mentioning the many HI surveys. So a better title might be “Continuum
| radio surveys in the pre-Square Kilometre Array era”
|
| First line of the introduction “All radio surveys are
| cosmological”. This is obviously incorrect, so not a good way to start
| the review! For example, many radio surveys aren’t even extragalactic,
| let alone cosmological. But even the radio surveys that the author
| intends to refer to aren’t really cosmological. They are studies of
| the galaxies, which are mere corks bobbing along on the sea of dark
| matter moved by cosmological forces, rather than studies of the
| cosmology. True, some radio surveys are used to do excellent
| cosmology, but those aren’t actually discussed in this review. The
| author should think of a better opening line.
I'll take these two points together, since they're very closely
related. The title was based on the broader interpretation of the word
"cosmological", referring to the cosmological evolution of objects in
the Universe, which is frequently used in the field (perhaps
inappropriately). However, since radio surveys have the ability to
perform more direct cosmological experiments (e.g., the Sachs-Wolfe
Effect) that I don't discuss, a better adjective is probably
"extragalactic", and I have made this change.
This is also true for the second point that the referee makes, but I
disagree that radio surveys aren't "extragalactic". Even in the
Galactic plane, extragalactic sources are seen and anything that might
reasonably be described as a "survey", i.e. containing ~100+ sources,
has objects at redshifts of one or more; the second part of the
sentence makes clear what is meant. However, I appreciate the
referee's concerns and have changed the opening clause to "Radio
surveys provide a unique window to the distant Universe".
| Line 8.” the source counts showed strong evolution inconsistent with a
| Euclidean, Steady State Universe [4].” This is incorrect, as the Ryle
| and Scheuer paper was based on the 2C survey which was subsequently
| found to contain many spurious sources caused by sidelobe confusion
| (see e.g. Mills, B. Y., 1984, in The Early Years of Radio
| Astronomy. Edited by W.T. Sullivan, III. Cambridge: Cambridge
| University Press, p.147). Once these were removed, the data were
| consistent with either big band or steady state. A convincing
| argument against the steady state theory was not made until the 1957
| publication by Scheuer ( Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical
| Society, 53, 764) where he examined the statistical properties of the
| noise below the detection threshold. Later surveys (e.g. 3CR) were of
| course unambiguous in supporting the big bang.
I thank the referee for this correction. Out here in Hawaii it's
impossible to obtain the full text of many of these articles from the
1950s and 1960s and I was unaware that the Ryle & Scheuer paper I
cited relied on the 2C catalogue. I have replaced the reference with
the one the referee supplies.
| Figure 2: the symbols are shown twice in the legend.
This is intended; the legend shows two points, connected by a line of
the appropriate style.
| Line 189: a line or two needs to be inserted explaining the radio-FIR
| correlation. The first mention, in line 189, assumes the reader
| already knows what it is.
This has been reworded to read "The tightness of the correlation
between the radio and far-infrared luminosities of star-forming
galaxies".
| Section 6: it would be useful to mention the result by Rees+
| 2016MNRAS.455.2731R that whether an AGN is radio-loud or not seems to
| depend only on the mass, which explains why hi-z RL AGN are HERG and
| low-z are LERG.
I respectfully disagree with the referee on this point. The mass of
the host galaxy is only relevant insofar as it is correlated with the
mass of the supermassive black hole, as clearly something as
fundamental as the RL/RQ classification must be due to the properties
of the SMBH. The issue of SMBH mass is already discussed and
discussing the properties of the host galaxy is simply going back a
step from the actual cause.
| Line 409 “Even with these selection criteria, a sample optimized for
| finding HzRGs will still contain many lower-redshift interlopers.”
| This is not true for the infrared-faint radio sources, now known to be
| a class of HzRGs, for which virtually all members have z>2. See
| e.g. Collier+2014, mnras, 439,545, It would be remiss to discuss HzRG
| without mentioning the extensive literature on IFRS. Oddly, they do
| receive a brief mention in line 435, but with a citation to an
| unpublished thesis rather than to the many published papers, which is
| quite inappropriate for a broad review.
First, my statement refers only to selection based on radio properties
that had been previously discussed in this section; I've added a few
words to make this clear. Second, the fact that IR faintness is key to
identifying HzRGs is already discussed extensively in this section,
but I don't think IFRS objects merit being called a "class". The Garn
& Alexander sources are so faint that nobody knows what they are and
speculating on their nature is inappropriate in this review. The
brighter IFRS sources, such as those in Collier et al., appear simply
to be the faint end of a continuum of infrared fluxes for radio
sources, with the near-IR Hubble diagram providing the
anti-correlation between IR flux and redshift. I now cite the Collier
paper and the Middelberg paper that it cites, as they provide
information on the distribution of radio spectral indices for IFRS
sources, but the fact that IR-faint radio sources are at high-redshift
is not a new result; indeed, it was the basis of the proposal that
obtained telescope time for the survey we cite. I agree that it is a
shame that this work has not been published but I believe it is the
*only* systematic spectroscopic study of these objects and therefore
worth citing.
| Line 479. Rather than citing the websites, better references for
| askap, lofar, and meerkat are Johnston+2008, Experimental Astronomy,
| 22, 151 ; van Haarlem+ 2013, A&A, 556, A2; and Jonas, 2009, IEEE
| Proceedings, 97, 1522 respectively.
The websites were cited for a deliberate reason that they will (I
hope!) be updated as the telescopes are built and science
produced. For a section entitled "The future", I believe this is
better than a static resource, particularly when these papers are
often in hard-to-access journals.
| Section 8. I agree with the author that the continuum surveys with
| lofar, askap, and meerkat will be extremely important, but some
| mention should be made of the almost-equally-important VLASS survey
| (Murphy+2015)
This is a good point; in all the excitement of new facilities, one can
forget the continued excellence of the JVLA. Again, I have chosen to
cite the VLASS website rather than the Murphy et al. AAS reference.
| Section 8: it would be worth mentioning the complementary strengths of
| the various surveys: EMU and LOFAR are distinguished by their tens of
| millions of sources, Meerkat by its depth, and VLASS by its high
| spatial
This comment has been truncated; I assume the word "coverage" was to
follow. I have included a sentence about the complementarity of these
surveys.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
| Although it is impossible to cover all aspects of radio continuum
| surveys in a relatively short review, this is a very well written and
| comprehensive review on radio surveys and should be published.
| subject to very few minor comments that I list below.
| Figure. 1 - It would be useful to state what spectral index is used
| for the lines on this figure.
The caption has been updated to indicate an assumed spectral index of 0.7.
| Reference missing on line 312
This has been fixed.
| In the future section I would suggest adding links to the DES SNe deep
| fields and the LSST deep drilling fields, which I believe are also the
| MIGHTEE fields and supply optical data.
I've added a comment that the MIGHTEE fields are the LSST Deep
Drilling fields but this is implied by the fact that the LSST Deep
Drilling fields were chosen as those with the best complementary data.
Society Open
