Males migrate farther than females in a differential migrant:
an examination of the fasting endurance hypothesis
Elizabeth A. Gow, Karen L. Wiebe
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140346.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140346
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 May 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 November 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140046.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andreas Lindén)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not sure. I have unfortunately not paid much attention to this aspect, but think that the vital
aspects of the study and the author's message are understandable with the information available
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
GENERAL COMMENTS:
This is a nice manuscript, investigating patterns of large scale migration distances in the flicker –
a migratory woodpecker. The prediction and confirmed finding that males migrate further than
females in this particular species is an interesting and nice contribution to the field. The pattern
contrasts with other differential migrants with other parental strategies. However, I don't see this
paper as a strong test for the fasting endurance hypothesis and the role of parental effort for
differential migration between sexes. It is rather a proposal, or first call, for studying an
interesting new subject. Experimental studies, multi-species meta-analyses and individual level
information about parental effort and body condition would be needed. I guess the authors know
this, but I think it should be further emphasized, to clarify the role of the manuscript.
I would like to have some clarification in the explanation and interpretation of the statistical
analyses. In particular – if the authors do what I believe they do – I would which to see the
estimated effects sizes (regression coefficients), their standard errors, and why not also 95 %
confidence intervals. These are important and have a nice and straightforward interpretation.
This is especially the case as the predictors (breeding site latitude, sex, age) does not contain any
relevant observation error. This implies a rather rare and luxurious condition, where the
coefficients are unaffected by regression attenuation. The regression coefficient (say b) of
breeding latitude is very interesting as such. An effect of b = 1 indicates that the birds travel on
average a constant distance. This is also the null hypothesis in the Spearman's rank correlation
test, which I find redundant and suggest could be removed. An effect of b = 0 (null hypothesis
tested in the current version), means that the wintering latitude is not at all affected by the
breeding latitude, i.e., that the birds have to travel further if they breed further north. Leap-frog
migration would give b < 0 and symmetric leap-frog migration b = –1. A positive coefficient
differing from both 0 and 1 is quite likely to be the case here, and could nicely be illustrated using
a confidence interval for b. Related to previous comment, there could be and interaction between
sex and breeding latitude, which would mean that the male and female have both different slopes
b (see interpretation above) and intercepts. In current model, the slope is forced to be the same in
both sexes. I would also (in any case) suggest replacing Figure 4 with one where wintering
latitude is on the y-axis.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
Abstract, L25: we? Introduction, L91: then > than Materials and methods, L121–124: These two
sentences contain overlapping information, which sounds almost contradictory. I suppose the
contrasting numbers refer to the number of geolocators attached on birds and the ones that where
successfully recaptured to provide information. Please clarify. Materials and methods, L137–139:
What do you mean by a location error of 94 ± 167 km (SD)? Is 94 km the mean location error and
167 km the standard deviation? Clarify. Materials and methods, L143–144: The Spearman's rank
correlation test is redundant when using the GLM. Further explanations can be found elsewhere
in my comments.
Materials and methods, L144–146: Aren't latitude and longitude continuous (quantitative)
variables? How were they initially included as random effects what did they affect in a random
manner? The intercept? Or did you mean you tried to estimate a spatially autocorrelated
Gaussian Markov field without success? This sounds a bit suspicious, needs to be considerably
clarified or removed. Is this important with respect to the GLM used? Materials and methods,
L148–150: The fixed effects model description either incomplete or slightly unclear. When fitting
a GLM (generalized linear model) the link function and error distribution are vital information,
but here they are missing. Therefore, I suppose you actually fit a regular linear model (= multiple
regression model; function "lm" in R), sometimes actually called GLM as well (in that case,
*general* linear model). Actually it's equivalent to using a GLM (in R function "glm") with
identity link and normal error, which are the default options in a GLM. In any case, it's better to
3
just call it "linear model" to avoid confusion. I agree that a linear model is appropriate for this
particular question. Please clarify terminology and what model you actually use. Materials and
methods: have you thought about including longitude as a fixed effect in the model, with
possible interactions, describing whether the system works differently in the east and the west?
Materials and methods, L150: "variance is expressed as ± SD". This is contradictory and
confusing; the variance *is* the SD squared. If you mean that the variation of any measured
variables is reported as mean ± SD, please remove, and be clear about this where relevant.
Otherwise, clarify. Material and methods: Clarify the role of geolocator and banding data in this
study. Are the two data types simply pooled in the analyses?
Results, L166–177: Please report all the effect sizes, i.e., estimated regression coefficients as well as
their standard errors. They are important information.
Discussion, L185: Some semantics; I would not call this pattern of differential migration (your
main result) "bias", if you believe it's real. Discussion, L208–211: Restructure sentence to clarify,
perhaps split into two. Discussion, L237–242: To which level are these hypotheses explicitly
supported by the results of these studies? Are they only the explanations emphasized by the
authors, or are there other stronger evidence. Could perhaps the fasting endurance hypothesis
explain those patterns? Figure 3, L19, L188: You histogram of migratory distances indicates that
the species is actually a partial migrant, where a relevant proportion of the population (in the
south ?) are sedentary. I agree that this species, and most partial migrants, can also be called
short-distance migrants when referring to the migration individuals only, but I think this part can
be clarified. Until the very end of the manuscript, I thought that the flicker is an obligatory short-
distance migrant, unlike many European woodpeckers (I might have missed some statements
earlier).
Figure 4: I suggest replacing this figure with another one, where wintering latitude is on the y-
axis (or alternatively wintering latitude corrected for age). Then plot the fitted regression line for
both sexes separately. Such a figure would better correspond to the main analysis. Relating to
this, it could be relevant to let the sexes have different slopes (see general comments). If the
change in analysis is not made, the suggested two regression lines are parallel.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Marjorie Sorensen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
4
Comments to the Author(s)
Elizabeth Gow and Karen Wiebe have addressed differential migration in the northern flicker, a
particularly useful study species for addressing the fasting endurance hypothesis since males,
rather than females, invest more in parental care. The authors found support for the fasting
hypothesis as males migrated farther than females, presumably to more benign winter habitats in
order to recoup the energy expended during breeding. Migratory connectivity in this species was
found to be strong, and birds breeding at higher latitudes had longer migration distances. This
manuscript is clear, well written, well designed, and advances our understanding of differential
migration. I only have minor comments. To me, the abstract is not representative of the fantastic
work that has been done here and could be better at highlighting the most interesting points.
I think emphasizing that the unusual reversed sex roles allow the often ignored fasting endurance
hypothesis to be tested, should be included. Currently the abstract doesn’t make clear what the
fasting endurance hypothesis is. Including this information will help the reader key in quickly to
what is most unique about this study. Line 184-185 from the discussion “, that contradicts the
pattern found in all other species of birds studied to date” would fit very nicely in the abstract.
Line 23 ‘Connectivity was strong for populations….’ This sentence needs some reworking. Also,
it wouldn’t take many more words to include why populations in the east might be declining
more.
Line 25. Remove ‘we’ Line 38. ‘diverse patterns’ please clarify what type of pattern you are
referring to here since it’s not immediately clear.
Line 47. For the sake of clarity perhaps rework to remove the word ‘farther’ since at a first pass it
seems to indicate that southern breeding populations winter farther away rather than father
‘north’. One question that you may want to address is the trade off between migration costs and
wintering ground conditions. If migration is cheap then why don’t females migrate just as far as
males if they’ll encounter the best wintering habitats. Your results may suggest that migration in
northern flickers is expensive, but is there any evidence for this? (since the costs of migration vary
between species)
Line 194-195. Individuals breeding at more northern latitudes migrate further than southern
birds. Does this mean then that northern and southern breeding birds have overlapping winter
ranges? Best to make this clear in the discussion.
Line 247-254 Perhaps I’m missing something but this example isn’t clear to me. How would
reproductive differences in lekking white-ruffed manakins explain the fact that males are more
migratory in this species, since females invest more in parental care? Also, previous research
attributed differential migration to different body sizes. Please indicate which sex is larger in this
species.
Line 252-254. Why do you reference the Fudickar study here specifically? Perhaps it would be
better to make a more general statement here since the same would apply to almost all studies of
differential migration to date.
This is a well designed study that tests an often overlooked hypothesis for differential migration
and will be of interest to a broad audience. Marjorie Sorensen University of Cambridge, UK
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
5
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
To my knowledge, supporting data were not included. Though given some of my concerns about
the datasets and analyses, their inclusion they might help make the paper more compelling with
respect to scientific soundness
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
SUMMARY:
The stated goals for this paper were to evaluate migratory connectivity for he northern flicker,
with special emphasis on examining hypotheses related to mechanisms underlying differential
migration, in particular the “fasting-endurance hypothesis” which the authors indicate has
received less attention or support. The flicker’s parental care system (in which males provide a
bulk of care) is emphasized, as it may predict unique outcomes for migratory strategy, for
example favoring males going farther south as per the fasting endurance hypothesis. This
datasets include: 1) data from 17 recovered light-level geolocators from a single site (Riske Creek,
British Columbia; [RC]), 2) band recovery data (from the Canadian Banding Office) from ~175
flickers, and 3) 7 banded birds recovered from the RC site long-term study. I found several
passages of the paper interesting, and it was generally well written -----and it would be nice to see
the geolocator data and band recovery data published, and it makes sense to publish together.
However, I have major concerns that I believe need to be addressed in order to make this paper
scientifically sound with respect to the relationships among the presented data, the methods, and
the emphasized conclusions. Since this is an open access and non-competitive journal, I’m
hopeful a major revision might make it suitable.
MAJOR CONCERNS:
1) Conceptually, I believe that there is too much emphasis placed on testing and concluding
support for the “fasting endurance hypothesis.” I agree with the general premise that the
examining differential migration in a sex-role-reversed parenting system bird is interesting and
important, as is amassing summarized info on migratory connectivity for a range of species.
However, there are no data on condition or physiology presented (or referenced clearly) that
indicate that males on average actually incur greater overall physiological costs during breeding
compared to females. There is apparently a quantitative difference wherein males provide more
brooding and parental effort, but this is not quantified or explained thoroughly to evaluate the
degree to which males might experience greater costs. Further, it seems that even if the data are
appropriately interpreted as they are in this paper (i.e. that males migrate farther south), there are
other non-exclusive alternatives to explain such behavior, for example, that relaxed sexual
selection or extrapair paternity associated with the sex-role-reversed such that proximity to the
breeding grounds to compete for mates early may be relaxed? In general my point here is that
these are mostly descriptive data, and I think that’s fine. Especially given some possible
complications and weaknesses with the data (see below) allowing for strong conclusions to be
6
drawn with respect to sex or geography----they can still be presented in a scientifically sound
manner by relaxing some emphasis on hypothesis testing and drawing strong conclusions.
2) As per my comments below, I feel that more careful effort needs to be made to explain and
justify some issues with the specific data sources, subsets, and analytical methods.
2a) First of all, it seems well-established in the migratory connectivity literature that hetergeneous
recovery probabilities for mark-recapture data have the potential to drastically skew
interpretations of these data. Methods now exist to address and incorporate these probabilities
(e.g. Cohen et al. 2014, Ecology and Evolutoin, and references therein). I’m not sure whether they
are applicable to the datasets presented here, but the choice of reporting raw band-recovery data
needs to be discussed and justified. This type of heterogeneity in “recovery probability ” or
“measurement probability” (e.g. geolocator versus recovery) may well bias the dataset with
respect to the current framing hypothesis and interpretation of sex differences in distance
travelled.
2b) For example, I have concerns with respect to the geolocator dataset in relation to the
hypotheses and conclusions as follows: Since sex differences in distance was a key focus, it seems
problematic that the geolocator dataset was so imbalanced with respect to sex (only 1 female
(~4% recovery rate); and 16 males (~30% recovery rate); see major comment below). This can also
be addressed by identifying which birds were geolocator birds and which were not within the
datasets (i.e. were they randomly distributed), as per my suggestions/requests for a table
indicating sampling breakdown among methods and sex and sites, possibly keying this in the
figures/legends, and also subset analyses to address the possibility of spurious results driven my
methodology. e.g., Were the farthest south males (SoCal and Baja) from geolocators? My concern
here is to be sure a certain sex bias in methodlogy * sex is not underlying the main conclusion (i.e.
driving the sex differences).
2c) In general, as per my comments below, I believe that several of the analytical and summary
methods passages could be much more clear, and I also believe that additional analyses should
be added to ensure that the main conclusions relating sex and distance travelled (i.e. males
migrate farther), and also the relationship between are not spurious results. I also question and
ask for more explanation / justification, for example regarding the use of linear models (e.g. the
original random effects models) with the Riske Creek dataset, since it has zero variation with
respect to the latitude and longitude, even though it represents the entire “west of the continental
divide” dataset. Why use the simulation approach to throw out the lat/long random effects, then
include lat in the model, maybe just include a site effect instead? Or analyze subsets?
MAJOR COMMENTS:
Line 108 – Were there any filters on the band recovery data for birds that were banded as
juveniles on the breeding grounds? (i.e. how did you discern migration from juvenile dispersal).
At Line 158, there was a 50km cutoff mentioned? Is anything known about the juvenile dispersal
patterns to comment on that? Also with resepct ot the cutoff or filters you used to distinguish
migrants versus non-migrants in the band recovery data, how is it that some non-migrants (i.e.
migration distance = zero in Fig. 4) are included, while others are not (originally n=1086
recoveries) The above two concerns (as well as additiaonl points below) suggest to me that it
would be very helpful to have a table that breaks down the data sources and samples sizes with
respect to site, sex, age, method, etc.
Line 121- 122 – It’s a bit troublesome that nearly all the included geolocator birds were males
when sex is a variable that’s part of the interpretation. Regarding deployment and recapture rates
I understand one sex may be easier to capture, etc. But why are recovery rates for males so much
higher (~ 30%) versus females (~4%)? Seems worth addressing if there are any explanations. And
possibly testing the Riske Creek dataset without and without geolocator birds. Also makes me
wonder how unbalanced the Riske Creek dataset is with respect to sex? Line 138 – Is this the
latitudinal location error only? What about the longitudinal error? Or is that both together
averaged somehow? Line 137 – The “unpublished data” justifying the calibration method for
cavity nesting seems important enough to include as a supplementary dataset or description….or
alternatively, at least explain a bit more.
7
Lines 143 – 150 – I recommend revising this section to make it more clear the hypothesis to be
tested and all variables to consider, and then the model fitting / final model justification, etc. Line
148 – 150 – This sentence is the main test in which you initially included breeding lat/long as
random factors then removed? If so, I would put this sentence before the prior one to indicate
what you were trying to test---followed by the details about the model with regards to the
random factors being included, then excluded, etc.
Line 148-150 – so breeding latitude was originally included as a random effect (alongside
longitude) but then included just as a fixed effect (covariate) in the final GLM? RESULTS and
Lines 145 – 150 – Why not just include a site or region effect? Because it seems to me the problem
with doing the mixed model with the random effects of lat/long is that the RC data all from the
same point make those variables horrifically non-normal Lines 146 – 147 – I am not familiar with
this method for testing the importance of the random effects, but it seems odd to use a
simulation-based test to evaluate the importance of variables from a traditional hypothesis test
model (the mixed model GLM)…wouldn’t it provide a significance . Also see my prior comment
as I believe a site effect (or anyalyzing subsets with and without Riske Creek as you report in the
results) seems more compelling. Based on Figures 1 & 2, there are > 40 points in the western
wintering polygon, with only 1 effective breeding origin Riske Creek (RC) (and maybe one other
breeding point?) but there are stated to be “17 individuals” from geolocators at RC (Line 122) and
“an additional 7 re-sightings records from birds makred as part of a long-term study (1997-2003)
at RC” (Line 115).
In the Results, line 177, it appears there are ~50 birds So did the additional ~20-30 birds wintering
in the west just happen to be from historical band records, all from RC? Along these lines the text
states “mainly from Riske Creek” (Line 161) – aren’t all of them from RC, with maybe just one
bird from a very close by site (Fig. 2)? Fig. 2 – how are the polygons drawn? To encompass all
points? Or what %? Where were the wintering outliers from with respect to breeding sites? Line
168 / Figure 4 – I would highly suggest making this three different tests and reporting all three---
the pooled data as you report here, then exclude the non-migrants, then exclude non-migrants
and risk-creek birds. Three separate fit lines would be appropriate but not necessary. It appears
that the result will be the same, even when excluding non-migrants and Riske Creek---which
makes a much more compelling case to draw the conclusions you have without the appearance of
non-migrants + Riske Creek birds driving this relationship.
Line 182 – This is a bit of an odd interpretation, given that you only sampled 1 single breeding
site west of the Rocky Mountains, that happens to be pretty far west of the eastern breeding
populations sampled. Also, because there is no longitudinal variation within the western
sampled area. It is striking how little longitudinal variation exists on the Line 175 – 177 – What
about when Riske Creek birds were excluded? Line 183 – 185 – Is this demonstrated only within
the western (i.e. RC) population, right? Line 188 – 189 - Regarding this conclusion, were any
alternative climatic or other environmental variables considered in addition to or alongside the
pattern for snow-free ground? I’m not suggesting this isn’t a valid idea, but to posit this as a data-
driven suggestion by mapping snow free ground behind the observed patterns of migration
seems like a weak conclusion, particularly when sampling of breeding
MINOR COMMENTS:
Line 25: we “found” females wintered? (typo/word omission) Line 48 – contrast leapfrog
migration with “chain migration” etc.? (e.g. Berthold, 2001. A General Survey of Migration,
(book) Line 58-59 (and genetics, see Rundel et al. 2013 Molecular Ecology; ) Line 65 – formatting
issue with citation (Chapman, Bronmark, etc.) Line 72 – last clause is a bit anthropomorphic,
could clarify just a bit. Line 91-92 - more philopatric to nest sites <than> females (versus then)
typo Line 103 – might be nice to insert a short clause indicating why flickers are a keystone
species (based on reference title it seems because they create cavities) so the reader can ascertain
easily.
8
Line 115 – 117 – Wow that’s a crazy bird! I understand that logistical considerations can
reasonably limit a project’s scope, but is there a reason you chose not to include banding recovery
data from the US Bird Banding Lab? Or perhaps I’m mistaken and it’s the same data?? Line 168 –
“longer” distances? Line 177: Please report sex difference in distance mean +/- SD Line 193 – 195
– This conclusion seems to be well supported by Fig. 4 data. Lilnes 199 – 201 – would this be
easily addressed by adding US Bird Banding Lab Data? Or maybe it’s all the same dataset? Line
210 – 211 – See also Rundel et al. 2013, Molecular Ecology for a couple more species, I believe.
Line 204 -205 – my understsanding was that the Flicker hybrid zone is in the Great plains---which
seems less driven by the continental divide? Line 214 – breeding in Central North America (no
“the”) typo Line 214 – 230 – This is an interesting speculative paragraph, but seems pretty much
wholly unrelated to the data presented here? Lines 231 -246 – This is a nice discussion paragraph,
and totally on-point with the main themes and data presented here! Line 249 – perhaps a missing
comma?
label_end_comment
Decision letter
28-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Gow
Manuscript ID RSOS-140046 entitled "Males migrate farther than females in a differential
migrant: a revision of the fasting endurance hypothesis" which you submitted to Royal Society
Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of
this letter. In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its
current form. However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these
comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made. You will be unable to
make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your manuscript. Instead, revise your
manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript. Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 25-Feb-2015.
If you are unable to submit by this date please contact the Editorial Office. I look forward to a
resubmission.
Sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor,
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140046)
Dear Dr. Wray,
Thank you for the option to revise our manuscript ID RSOS-140046 entitled “males migrate
farther than females in a differential migrant: an examination of the fasting endurance
hypothesis”, for reconsideration to Royal Society Open Science. We think that the reviewer’s
comments were extremely helpful in revising this manuscript.
9
To address concerns of reviewers 2 and 3, we softened our wording about the strength to which
our results test the hypothesis and now stress that further quantitative data are needed in a future
study. We added methodological details and revised some analyses as suggested by reviewers 2
& 3. The reviewers suggested different revisions to figure 4 so we followed the suggestion of
reviewer 2 to show sex differences, which seemed to best suit the main aims of our paper.
Because reviewers wanted elaboration of alternate hypotheses, we added a new short paragraph
to the discussion. Reviewer 3, commented that we don’t really have enough data to demonstrate
why flicker populations are declining, so we removed the population decline paragraph from our
paper.
Please see specific responses below.
Thank you,
Elizabeth Gow
Reviewer 1:
- Abstract revised (Lines 26, 29–31)
- The section on population declines was removed from the discussion, so we reworded the
sentence (Line 23)
- Word removed (Line 24)
- Clarified the term ‘diverse patterns’ (Lines 39-40)
- Reworded sentence (Lines 47–49)
- This is a good point and we added a paragraph in the discussion to discuss other possibilities
that may explain the sex differences in migration distance. (Lines 352–370)
- Added that southern and northern populations overlap (line 299)
- Clarified the example and indicated which sex is larger (line 343–349)
- Removed sentence.
Reviewer 2 General Comments:
We softened our wording to say that our results are consistent with the fasting endurance
hypothesis and in the penultimate paragraph say that further studies which explicitly quantify
energy costs of males and females are needed to more directly test the hypothesis.
We added the requested statistical details as suggested, also see response to comment 10 below
and changed figure 4 as suggested. Also see response to comment 15 below.
Specific Comments
1. Corrected (Lines 24, 110)
2. Sentences combined for clarity (Lines 182–183)
3. Clarified location error (Lines 166–167)
4. Removed Spearman’s rank correlation.
10
5. Because both reviewers (2 and 3) raised concerns over the simulation test we removed it and
have added longitude in our model as a fixed factor. We also revised the paragraph to make our
methods clearer. (Lines 175–184).
6. Clarified the model by adding family and link function. (Lines 178–179)
7. Yes, we did think about using longitude as a fixed factor with interactions. We now explain in
the text that we originally included longitude with interactions but removed longitude from the
analysis to increase the power of our model. (Lines 179–182).
8. Statement about variance is clarified (line 183)
9. Indicated that the data are pooled (lines 175)
10. Reported all effect sizes, standard errors, and 95% CI. (Lines 205–206, 212–214, 216–219, 220–
223)
11. Wording changed. (lines 287–288)
12. Sentence restructured and clarified. (lines 337–345)
13. The hypotheses are supported by the studies listed and based on those authors best
interpretation of their own data. Because it is unlikely the fasting endurance hypothesis explains
the patterns we did not make any changes to the text.
14. Clarified terminology about short-distance vs. partial migrants. (Lines 314–316)
15. We changed figure 4 as suggested by the reviewer and used different symbols to represent
males vs females. In response to the reviewer’s comments about comparing the slopes and
intercepts we added the equation of the lines for the relationship between breeding and
wintering latitudes.
Reviewer 3:
Major Concerns
1. We retained a framework of hypothesis testing in the paper, but softened the wording and
added caveats to state that our descriptive results are consistent with the hypothesis but that
future studies that quantify energy costs of males and females are needed to more directly test it.
We added details about the mating system and sex roles of flickers to the introduction to make a
better case that males invest more into care than females (Lines 94–103).
2a. The Cohen et al. 2014 paper, suggested by the reviewer as a potential way to examine our
data, uses mark-recapture and probability of detection simulation modeling to estimate
connectivity between populations. The approach of Cohen et al. (2014) requires that all
individuals have the same probability of detection and survival. Additionally they suggest that
the technique is likely only applicable to birds with > 40000 individuals banded. The first
assumption is violated in our study as we use both geolocator and banding data and the sample
size of banded flickers is far less than 40 000.
To account for potential bias in our data we examined sex and age differences at three scales as
suggested by the reviewer (the first two were in the original manuscript): (1) continent wide (both
banding and geolocator data; lines 211–219); (2) Riske Creek only (banding and geolocator data;
lines 219–223); and (3) we added a new analysis that eliminates any bias from geolocators by
examining only band recoveries from migratory birds (lines 223–226).
2b. We now address the recovery method with a new analysis (see above).
Whereas geolocator birds had longer travel distances, and most of the geolocator birds were
male, this can't account for the sex-bias in distance because the pattern also held when only
11
migratory and banding records were used (i.e., no geolocator data; Lines 223–226). Since only one
site (Riske Creek) involved geolocator birds we don't think a table is necessary to show a
breakdown of methodology by site. Rather, we now state this clearly in the methods (Lines 139–
147).
2c. The linear model justification was removed (see comment # 5, reviewer 2) and please see
above comments about potential geolocator bias. Including a site effect does not make sense, as
aside from the Riske Creek records, all other banding records were from independent locations.
Major Comments
1. Little is published about juvenile dispersal distances in flickers but in northern populations
such as Riske Creek all birds migrate-whether juvenile or adult, and the documented movements
are always south of the breeding location, so it is unlikely the movements of yearling birds are
simply dispersal. Also, because flickers don’t breed during the winter (i.e., 15 October – 1 March)
it is very unlikely that movements by juveniles documented during this time are driven by
dispersal as opposed to migration. We added a sentence about our filtering of dispersal effects in
the methods (lines XXX).
2. Some birds were not included because they were caught during the same season, i.e., breeding
or wintering. Added additional details in methods for clarity (lines 136–139).
3. As per above response 2b about an additional table.
4. Details about recapture and recovery rates of geolocator birds are published in another paper.
We added a reference in the text (Lines 151). See above responses regarding examining sex
differences between geolocator and banding records.
5. The location error was clarified (lines 165–167 and response # 6 reviewer 2)
6. The details about the calibration method are currently in review for another journal, we
therefore did not add further details.
7,8,9. Revised paragraph and analyses, see responses for reviewer 2.
10. Adding a site or region effect does not make sense for our dataset, please see comment 2b
about locations of banded birds.
11. Please see response #8 for Reviewer 2 regarding simulation method and response #10 above
regarding site effect.
12. Because of the confusion with our sample sizes we clarified them in the methods. (Lines 144–
147). Line 161 (from original manuscript) was reworded to indicate that yes, these birds were all
from Riske Creek
13. Indicated that polygons encompass 90% of points (Line 524/ caption fig 2). Added details to
the results to describe some of the outliers in Fig 2 (Lines 199–203).
14. The reviewer requested that we conduct three analyses comparing migration distance to
breeding location. In addition to the analysis reported in the original manuscript containing all
data (both Riske and Continent wide birds). We think that only one additional analysis (Lines
223–226) was necessary to evaluate sex differences from banding records of migrants (including
both banding records from Riske Creek and Continent wide) because the main concern from the
reviewer is the potential bias from the geolocators. The other analyses suggested would have
much smaller datasets (i.e., banding records from Riske Creek birds, n = 26 female and 14 male),
which would lack power due to low sample sizes for males.
12
15. The patterns we report don’t seem particularly odd to us because it is common that migrating
birds choose not to cross large physical barriers on the landscape such as mountains, between
breeding and wintering sites (e.g. Delmore et al. 2012 and references within). We have thus not
added any text here.
16. Our sample sizes are not large enough to conduct larger models without the Riske Creek birds
in the model. Thus we did not conduct models excluding the Riske Creek Points.
17. No, the pattern was found throughout the continent. We altered to sentence (Line 286).
18. Because flickers are ground-foraging birds, snow cover is likely the most relevant climatic-
related variable to measure. We added details about this to the discussion (Lines 292–295).
Minor comments
- Typo corrected (Line 24)
- Added sentence to contrast to chain migration (Lines 49–51)
- Added “genetics” (Line 62)
- Format changed (Line 68)
- Sentence modified (Lines 74–76)
- Corrected typo (Lines 110)
- Added why flickers are a keystone species (Line 125)
- The Canadian Bird Banding Database is the same at the US Bird banding data.
- Sentence changed due to Reviewer 2’s comments.
- Added mean sex differences in migration distance (Lines 212_213)
- The Canadian Bird Banding Data is the same at the US Bird banding data.
- There were no additional species to add from the suggested reference.
-It is true that some of the hybrid zone is on the Great Plains, but it roughly follows the
continental divide. Anyway, we did not think it worthwhile here to expand on the exact location
of the hybrid zone as this is a different topic from the current paper and one that has no impact
on our results.
- Removed paragraph
- Comma added. Line 345
label_version_2
RSOS-140346 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andreas Lindén)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
13
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
-
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
GENERAL COMMENTS:
I think this revision nicely accounts for most of the relevant concerns raised by myself and the
other reviewers as well. I have a couple of additional comments, listed more specifically below.
What I am most worried about is that a relevant share of the birds do not migrate (see Figure 3–
4). As the decision to migrate (binary) and migration distance if migrating (continuous variable)
represents two slightly different phenomena, it could be relevant to analyze them separately. (I'm
sorry that I didn't come to think about this mention this earlier.) A minor effort that should
already help would be to provide the slopes without the migrants included.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
1) Abstract, P2, L26: Check and clarify sentence (usage of word "found")
2) Methods, P8, L170-171: Now it is clear what you have done. However, since you use a
*general* linear model, which is always both linear and assumes normally distributed residuals,
your statement of link and error is a bit strange (they are properties of *generalized* linear
models). The (general) linear model = a generalized linear model (GLM) with identity link and
normal error. Some alternatives for further clarification:
1) just call it a linear model, without specifying any link function? You can still mention the
assumption of normally distributed residuals if you want.
2) Change the word "general" to "generalized". Then everything should be perfectly clear,
although it is still in practice just a regular linear model.
3) Results, P9, L196 (estimate: 0.49 ± 0.099 SE): I'm not sure you got my previous point about
interpretation of the regression coefficient (y: wintering latitude, x: breeding latitude). The
latitudinal differences in wintering location are ca 0.49 × the differences in breeding location. This
implies that:
1) birds breeding farther north also winter farther north (estimate > 0), and
2) the differences in wintering latitude are not as much as the differences in breeding sites
(estimate < 1). These estimates are reliable because you apparently don't have noise in the
explanatory variable (breeding site latitude). While this is not a large *concern*, I think you could
make better use of the information content of the result and skip unnecessary tests made.
4) Results, P9, L197–198: What is the estimate and SE if you include migrants only? This would be
even more relevant than the slope for the whole data set, since it obviously describes migration
behavior.
14
5) Label of Figure 4, P19–20, L462–465: You write: "Females tended to winter closer to breeding
sites as indicated by the higher slope of the line (dashed line; y=0.6786x+9.1718), while males
wintered farther from the breeding sites (solid line; y=0.40x+19.88)." Nice to see you added this
comparison between sexes.
However, I do not think the interpretation is correct (see comment 3). Neither the intercept nor
the slope alone tells which sex migrates further. It depends on both parameters and is conditional
on x. As you see from the figure, the female line is mostly above the male line for the most
relevant breeding latitudes (say > 40°N) where most of the birds are. But the lines cross, and at
more southern breeding grounds the relationship is the opposite according to the model fit. I
don't think you should bother about that, because there are almost no migration individuals at
those latitudes.
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Marjorie Sorensen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you for your revision. All of my previous comments have been addressed and I am happy
with the revisions put in place.
label_author_6
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
15
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
I reviewed the prior version of this paper (Reviewer 3), and I appreciate the extent to which the
authors have improved the paper and done a thorough job addressing reviewers' concerns and
comments (which were sometimes contradictory). In particular, I appreciate the inclusion of
subset analyses to ensure that methodological-biases or subset-biases were not driving the core
results (of males migrating farther and further south than females), etc. the paper now seems
much improved and ready for publication.
Decision Letter (RSOS-140346)
12-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Gow
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140346 entitled
"Males migrate farther than females in a differential migrant: an examination of the fasting
endurance hypothesis" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
below. The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some
minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and
revise your manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of
publication that you submit the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". All main documents should
include the following sections before the references.
• Ethics statement - As discussed previously this should detail the appropriate permission and
licences to carry out the field work including the names of the bodies that granted these.
• Data accessibility statement - As discussed previously this should state that the Canadian Bird
Banding Office data were used with permission from the Canadian Bird Banding office and how
readers can access these data. This section should also state where your geolocator data can be
accessed.
• Competing interests statement
16
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140346)
Dear Editor,
Thank you for accepting our manuscript RSOS-140346 “Males migrate farther than females in a
differential migrant: an examination of the fasting endurance hypothesis” for publication in
Royal Society Open Science. As requested we responded to the reviewers comments (see specific
comments below), and added the requested details at the end of our manuscript. The data for this
paper were also uploaded on Dryad.
Thank you,
Elizabeth Gow
Response to Reviewers
Reviewer 2.
1. Clarified sentence. Line 29
2. Changed to generalized linear model. Line 175
3. It was not completely clear what the reviewer was requesting here, but it appeared that he was
suggesting that some of the tests were not necessary (but did not specify which ones). We think
the tests we included are all useful because they inform the reader what we are testing and the
relationships between migration distance and breeding location based on three different data
structures. Se, we made no changes here.
4. Added the estimate and SE. Lines 201, 204–205
5. Removed the reference to the equations of the lines as suggested. Line 488–490.
Society Open
