Modelling the role of correctional services on gangs:
insights through a mathematical model
F. Nyabadza, C. P. Ogbogbo and J. Mushanyu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170511.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170511
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170511.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attachment (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Livingstone Luboobi)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file (Appendix B).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170511)
07-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Nyabadza
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170511 entitled
"Modelling the role of correctional services on gangs: Insights through a mathematical model" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
3
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170511
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
4
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see attachment
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170511)
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170511.R1)
12-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Nyabadza,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Modelling the role of correctional
services on gangs: Insights through a mathematical model" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
***************************
Appendix A
The paper “Modelling the role of correctional services on gangs: Insights through a
mathematical model” introduces an infection-type ODE model to describe gang
populations. The total population varies over time and is divided into at-risk and not at-risk
individuals, active gang members and those who are incarcerated.
Induction into a gang is due to interactions with already established gang members, but
becoming at risk is solely due to socio-economic status, which, the authors claim, is
important in the South African context.
The paper is suitable for publication provided the following are addressed:
1. Does the quadratic behavior in the f(S_r, G) form affect the dynamics? Meaning would
things change if \eta = 0?
3. To people who are not familiar with reproduction numbers, the quantity R_g will emerge
as a total surprise. A better discussion should be included on how to calculate R_g from Eqs.
2.1. When R_g is introduced, there are lots of references but still, the paper should be self-
explicatory. Also, the dependence of R_g on all parameters (\theta, \sigma etc) should be
discussed even before performing the sensitivity analysis. Why does it increase or decrease
with given parameters? Is there anything unexpected about these dependencies?
4. The authors spend some time proving that a backwards (subcritical) bifurcation
emerges from their ODE model. Why is this important? There should be a discussion on the
implication of this result for crime prevention, spread or other kinds of practical outcomes
that this subcritical bifurcation entails.
5. In the discussion more emphasis should be placed on the “useful and practical results
that can be of help to policy makers in fighting against gangsterism, gang violence and its
related crimes”. What are these practical results, except for sufficiently large \epsilon is
necessary to stop gang proliferation? A list that non-math specialists could use, would be
very important to include
6. In figures 3,4,5 what are the times? Years? Months? What can we say about the time
scales involved? In Figure 6 is this R_g? If so, it should be specified in the caption.
7. Table 1 should be moved earlier, and an entry on the table should be the definition of all
parameters so that the reader has an easier time navigating through their meaning, in case
he/she needs an immediate reminder. Like: \gamma | sentencing rate | 0.8. Also the
maximum allowed value should be included. Are they all assumed to be < 1?
7. Since one of the main conclusions of this work is that the efficiency of correctional
services is of primary importance in stopping gang proliferation, the paper should
reference other mathematical work in the context of crime, punishment and deterrence,
especially all the work that has been done using game theoretic models, such as
Recidivism and rehabilitation of criminal offenders: a carrot and stick evolutionary game,
Bijan Berenji et al. PLoSOne 9 e85531 (2014)
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/authors?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0085531
Gangs and Crime Deterrence, Abdala Mansour et al, Journal of Law, Economics, &
Organization 22 315-339 (2006)
https://www.jstor.org/stable/4152838?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents
Punish, but not too hard: how costly punishment spreads in the spatial public goods game,
Dirk Helbing et al, New Journal of Physics, 12 083005 (2010)
http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1367-2630/12/8/083005/meta
A double-edged sword: Benefits and pitfalls of heterogeneous punishment in evolutionary
inspection games, Matjaz Perc et al, Scientific Reports 5 11027 (2015)
https://www.nature.com/articles/srep11027
Appendix B
Reviewer’s Comments on Nyabadza et al. Manuscript ID RSOS – 170511 
entitled 
Modelling the role of correctional services on gangs: Insights through a 
mathematical model 
Page Line(s) Comment 
1 18 – 21 Consider rephrasing, e.g. as: Gang membership should be
acknowledged as part of crime and should be considered in
prevention and policy designs when developing interventions
and preventative programmes.
49 “to” should be changed to “for”.
2 34 Wouldn’t “crime prevention” be better than “crime reduction”?
39 State what the reader expects in Section 6.
3 Fig. 1 <U+03BD> should be together with es1C, i.e. <U+03BD>es1C
1-<U+03BD> should be together with es1C, i.e. (1-<U+03BD>)es1C
The rates µC and µG should be by the arrows; not at the ends
of the arrows
4 25 -­-28 Note that dN/dt = <U+039B> -µN <U+21D2> N(t) = max{N(0), <U+039B>/µ} and
Invariant therefore bounded above. Therefore in G we should have
region 0 = N(t) = max{N(0), <U+039B>/µ}
5 17 It should be: “(d) Definition” not “Definition (d)”
22 “(d)” should be ”(3.2)”.
54 “… with a proportionally smaller increase or decrease.” How do
the authors justify this?
6 11 -­- 12 Noted that R0 is the same as Rg according to (3.1)
7 3 Delete the word “always”
8 10 – 11 & (i) and (ii) seem to contradictory when Rg > 1!
14 – 15 (iv) and (v) seem to be contradictory!
Theorem 
3.2 
9 23 a and b are mentioned before they are defined; unless the reader
has to refer to [27]
10 6 – 7 G*(t) should be just G*
Figure 2 
30 -­- 31 <U+039B> is different from per capita birth rate and therefore the units
of these two parameters are different.
12 21 -­- 22 “its” should be “it is”.
“ … then it is beneficial to the individual and the … are saved”
cannot be deduced from the analysis in the manuscript
15 8 – 10 The volume and the pages of the journal should be stated
Ref 21 
33 The volume and pages of the journal in the reference are
confused
38 Should indicate that the population estimates referred to here are
Ref.34 for South Africa
pendix C
ponses to the Review of our Manuscript #RSOS-170511
are grateful for the review on our manuscript Number: RSOS-170511 and the insightful comments
ed by the anonymous reviewers.
ow are our responses to the concerns raised by the reviewer(s);
1. Does the quadratic behavior in the f(S_r,G) form affect the dynamics? Meaning would things
change if \eta = 0?
Yes, the quadratic form of the incidence function is the source of backward bifurcation
and leads to the existence of multiple gang-persistent equilibria whereas for \eta = 0 the
system will have a forward bifurcation and a unique gang-persistent equilibrium. We have
added a paragraph to explain this.
2. To people who are not familiar with reproduction numbers, the quantity R_g will emerge as a total
surprise. A better discussion should be included on how to calculate R_g from Eqs. 2.1. When
R_g is introduced, there are lots of references but still, the paper should be self-explicatory. Also,
the dependence of R_g on all parameters (\theta, \sigma etc) should be discussed even before
performing the sensitivity analysis. Why does it increase or decrease with given parameters? Is
there anything unexpected about these dependencies?
Thank you for this important comment. We have added the calculations of R_g and the
explanations are given, see subsections 3(b) and 3(c).
3. The authors spend some time proving that a backward (subcritical) bifurcation emerges from their
ODE model. Why is it important? There should be a discussion on the implication of this result for
crime prevention, spread or other kinds of practical outcomes that this subcritical bifurcation
entails.
Done. Study of backward (subcritical) bifurcation is of interest because in epidemic modeling,
the basic reproduction number, R_0, which is the key concept in epidemiology, should be
decreased to below unity to eradicate the disease. However, in our model the existence of
backward bifurcation entails that gangs may persist in the population even with values of R_g
less than unity. A discussion of the implications of such a scenario has been included in the
Backward Bifurcation section.
4. In the discussion more emphasis should be placed on the “useful and practical results that can be
of help to policy makers in fighting against gangsterism, gang violence and its related crimes”.
What are these practical results, except for sufficiently large \epsilon is necessary to stop gang
proliferation? A list that non-math specialists could use, would be very important to include.
Done.
5. In figures 3,4,5 what are the times? Years? Months? What can we say about the time scales
involved? In Figure 6 is this R_g? If so, it should be specified in the caption.
The time is in months and we have added some comments in the captions of the figures.
6. Table 1 should be moved earlier, and an entry on the table should be the definition of all
parameters so that the reader has an easier time navigating through their meaning, in case
he/she needs an immediate reminder. Like: \gamma | sentencing rate | 0.8. Also the maximum
allowed value should be included. Are they all assumed to be < 1?
Done.
7. Since one of the main conclusions of this work is that the efficiency of correctional services is of
primary importance in stopping gang proliferation, the paper should reference other mathematical
work in the context of crime, punishment and deterrence, especially all the work that has been
done using game theoretic models, such as Recidivism and rehabilitation of criminal offenders: a
carrot and stick evolutionary game.
Done.
Society Open
