Return of a giant: DNA from archival museum samples
helps to identify a unique cutthroat trout lineage formerly
thought to be extinct
Mary M. Peacock, Evon R. Hekkala, Veronica S. Kirchoff and Lisa G. Heki
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171253.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171253
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 31 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 11 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 13 October 2017
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160836.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrew Martin)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is fantastic and much-needed work on a species that is of important conservation concern, as
well as of incredible interest from basic evolutionary biology perspectives. The manuscript does
an excellent job integrating historical information about hydrological changes in the Western US
over the past 15k years with information about human impacts in the past hundreds of years.
This is crucial background for the interpretation of the very interesting genetic results that the
authors present. The authors find evidence for high levels geographic structure within historical
populations of Lahontan cutthroat trout using genetic information gleaned from historical
museum specimens. Additionally, they find evidence that the Pilot Peak hatchery stock of
Lahontan cutthroat trout is descended from the now extirpated lacustrine populations of the
Western Lahontan basin.
This is a fascinating manuscript and will be a great resource once published for those interested
in the history of cutthroat trout in the Western USA. I have several comments I would like to see
the authors to address to clarify their methods/results. Most crucially, the authors need to
improve their presentation of the results in Figures 5, 6, and 7 such that these figures are more
easily interpretable to readers who are not familiar with these fishes. I also point to several minor
issues that would improve the manuscript.
1. The authors state in the text of the manuscript that they performed Principal Components
3
Analysis of their microsatellite data (e.g. line 262). However, their figures (5-7) describe what they
have done as Principal Coordinates Analysis (PCoA). It is important that the authors clarify what
analysis they have done (and how they have done it), and either correct their methods/results, or
correct their figures. Additionally, it would be beneficial for the authors to include the loadings
on other PC axes as supplemental information, as well as plots of these additional axes, since
these additional axes explain substantial variation as well.
2. The authors present average cluster membership on a population level from their STRUCTURE
analyses in Figure 6 (and potentially Figure 5? This is not clear) rather than individual-level
assignment data. I would strongly recommend that the authors instead plot the individual-level
data, as the variation in membership within groups is interesting to see and an important part of
the interpretation of STRUCTURE results.
3. Connected to point #2, it would be highly beneficial for the authors to include a map associated
with at least the main STRUCTURE figure result (Figure 5) so it would be possible to more
readily interpret the geographic structure present within the results. As readers do not have the
locations of these sites memorized, help interpreting the geographic context of these results
would be highly beneficial. Furthermore, as it is only code names listed on Figure 5 (panel C) it is
currently impossible to understand the geography of the genetic structure being presented here,
and that makes it difficult to interpret/evaluate the results in light of the information presented
in the discussion. In particular, the authors’ interpretation that there are “multiple genotype
clusters in the museum samples, which span both Lake Tahoe, the Truckee River, and Pyramid
Lake” is fascinating. In order for readers to be able to see this result in the data, however, it is
crucial that the authors provide specific information about a) where museum specimens were
collected (I realize this information is included in Table 1, but it would be much more valuable
plotted on a map accompanying the Figure), and b) what genotype groups those individuals
belong to based on STRUCTURE results. Adding this information would add tremendous value
to this work.
4. The connection to work showing the vast difference in growth rates of the previously stocked
strains in Pyramid Lake versus the Pilot Peak strain in Pyramid Lake is fascinating. What is not
clear in the current version of the manuscript is what the “contemporary Pyramid Lake strain of
mixed stock ancestry” (line 396) actually is genetically. Did the authors genotype these fish? This
is not crucial for this manuscript, but please clarify. Additionally, it would benefit the paper to
move discussion of this history of Pyramid lake (i.e. historical efforts to restore cutthroat versus
introduction of the Pilot Peak strain) to the introduction.
Minor issues:
Rather than the cumbersome “Natural Log of the Probability of the Data” as a y-axis label on
Figures 5, 6, and 7, “LnP(D)” is sufficient (and I would argue preferable).
DNA extraction and genotyping methods from historical samples are well described and
documented. However, it is not clear if/which/how many of the museum samples were fixed in
formalin versus only preserved in ethanol. Including this information, and information on
relative success at extraction of formalin-preserved specimens (if indeed you have samples from
both formalin and ethanol), would be highly beneficial for readers who dream of successfully
working on the genetics of formalin fixed samples.
It would be nice to shade or color code the current and historical range of the subspecies within
the basin map of Figure 1.
Catherine Wagner
University of Wyoming
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160836)
04-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Peacock:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160836 entitled "Return of a giant: using museum specimens to identify a
unique cutthroat trout lineage thought to be extinct" which you submitted to Royal Society Open
Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this
letter.
Both reviewers are positive in principle about publication of the manuscript, commenting that
this is an important topic and analysis. However they raise, particular reviewer 1, some
substantive concerns with the analysis. In particular, reviewer 1 comments on the need to ensure
that the overall conclusions of the paper are aligned with the analysis and data. Reviewer 2, while
very positive about the subject matter of the paper, raises a number of major points. Overall, in
view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript is not publishable in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration all of the
comments of the reviewers.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 04-Jul-2017. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Steve Brown, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached.
5
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is fantastic and much-needed work on a species that is of important conservation concern, as
well as of incredible interest from basic evolutionary biology perspectives. The manuscript does
an excellent job integrating historical information about hydrological changes in the Western US
over the past 15k years with information about human impacts in the past hundreds of years.
This is crucial background for the interpretation of the very interesting genetic results that the
authors present. The authors find evidence for high levels geographic structure within historical
populations of Lahontan cutthroat trout using genetic information gleaned from historical
museum specimens. Additionally, they find evidence that the Pilot Peak hatchery stock of
Lahontan cutthroat trout is descended from the now extirpated lacustrine populations of the
Western Lahontan basin.
This is a fascinating manuscript and will be a great resource once published for those interested
in the history of cutthroat trout in the Western USA. I have several comments I would like to see
the authors to address to clarify their methods/results. Most crucially, the authors need to
improve their presentation of the results in Figures 5, 6, and 7 such that these figures are more
easily interpretable to readers who are not familiar with these fishes. I also point to several minor
issues that would improve the manuscript.
1. The authors state in the text of the manuscript that they performed Principal Components
Analysis of their microsatellite data (e.g. line 262). However, their figures (5-7) describe what they
have done as Principal Coordinates Analysis (PCoA). It is important that the authors clarify what
analysis they have done (and how they have done it), and either correct their methods/results, or
correct their figures. Additionally, it would be beneficial for the authors to include the loadings
on other PC axes as supplemental information, as well as plots of these additional axes, since
these additional axes explain substantial variation as well.
2. The authors present average cluster membership on a population level from their STRUCTURE
analyses in Figure 6 (and potentially Figure 5? This is not clear) rather than individual-level
assignment data. I would strongly recommend that the authors instead plot the individual-level
data, as the variation in membership within groups is interesting to see and an important part of
the interpretation of STRUCTURE results.
3. Connected to point #2, it would be highly beneficial for the authors to include a map associated
with at least the main STRUCTURE figure result (Figure 5) so it would be possible to more
readily interpret the geographic structure present within the results. As readers do not have the
locations of these sites memorized, help interpreting the geographic context of these results
would be highly beneficial. Furthermore, as it is only code names listed on Figure 5 (panel C) it is
currently impossible to understand the geography of the genetic structure being presented here,
and that makes it difficult to interpret/evaluate the results in light of the information presented
in the discussion. In particular, the authors’ interpretation that there are “multiple genotype
clusters in the museum samples, which span both Lake Tahoe, the Truckee River, and Pyramid
Lake” is fascinating. In order for readers to be able to see this result in the data, however, it is
crucial that the authors provide specific information about a) where museum specimens were
collected (I realize this information is included in Table 1, but it would be much more valuable
plotted on a map accompanying the Figure), and b) what genotype groups those individuals
belong to based on STRUCTURE results. Adding this information would add tremendous value
to this work.
4. The connection to work showing the vast difference in growth rates of the previously stocked
strains in Pyramid Lake versus the Pilot Peak strain in Pyramid Lake is fascinating. What is not
clear in the current version of the manuscript is what the “contemporary Pyramid Lake strain of
mixed stock ancestry” (line 396) actually is genetically. Did the authors genotype these fish? This
6
is not crucial for this manuscript, but please clarify. Additionally, it would benefit the paper to
move discussion of this history of Pyramid lake (i.e. historical efforts to restore cutthroat versus
introduction of the Pilot Peak strain) to the introduction.
Minor issues:
Rather than the cumbersome “Natural Log of the Probability of the Data” as a y-axis label on
Figures 5, 6, and 7, “LnP(D)” is sufficient (and I would argue preferable).
DNA extraction and genotyping methods from historical samples are well described and
documented. However, it is not clear if/which/how many of the museum samples were fixed in
formalin versus only preserved in ethanol. Including this information, and information on
relative success at extraction of formalin-preserved specimens (if indeed you have samples from
both formalin and ethanol), would be highly beneficial for readers who dream of successfully
working on the genetics of formalin fixed samples.
It would be nice to shade or color code the current and historical range of the subspecies within
the basin map of Figure 1.
Catherine Wagner
University of Wyoming
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160836)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-171253.R0 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrew Martin)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
7
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See attached review (Appendix C).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171253)
06-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Peacock
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171253 entitled
"Return of a giant: DNA from archival museum samples help to identify a unique cutthroat trout
lineage formerly thought to be extinct" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee's suggestions. Please find the
referee's comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. The reviewer is very positive about publication and the
importance of the work, but raises some concerns and emphasises that there is insufficient
emphasis on the uncertainty surrounding some of your conclusions. It will be important to
address this particular point in your minor revisions. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the
comments and revise your manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171253
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
8
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 15-Oct-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
9
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached review
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171253)
See Appendix D.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171253.R1)
13-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Peacock,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Return of a giant: DNA from archival
museum samples helps to identify a unique cutthroat trout lineage formerly thought to be
extinct" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
10
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Peacock et al. assembled a data set of microsatellite genotypes from museum and
modern samples of cutthroat trout throughout their range in an effort to identify
whether a unique lake-form extinct in its native range is present in a locality outside
of its native range. The work is an important contribution relevant for conservation
actions.
Critical comments
My main concern with this paper is that it is too long for the message being
delivered and the presentation of the results and language of the paper often makes
it difficult to extract the relevant information.
For example, the first figure showing the STRUCTURE and PCA results is confusing
and I am not exactly sure of the main purposes of the figure. It might be worth
putting some of the details in a supplementary document and then presenting a
STRUCTURE analysis that mirrors the PCA analysis in terms of groups so that the
two graphs can be directly compared (visually). One way to better connect the two
graphs is to make the colors for each population the same.
It might be worth structuring the paper with subheadings that reflect the purpose of
what is being done. For example, one subheading might read “Are Pilot Peak fish
Lahontan Cutthroat trout?” “Which historical population is putatively most similar
to the Pilot Peak fish?” Etc.
It would be very useful to use symbols with colors on a map to summarize the data
for how groups are geographically distributed. If a map is constructed, it would be
good to show the sites in Utah as well.
The claims in the figure descriptions may not be true. For example, PCA does not
show subpopulations. PCA shows the similarity of individuals in multivariate space.
Asserting there are subpopulations is a claim that stems from an interpretation of
what the PCA shows. Confounding evidence and claims happens repeatedly in this
paper and I think the authors need to be more careful and deliberate in how the
evidence allows them to make the claims they make. Moreover, I think the authors
need to make it clear that closeness on PCA space may not mean that the individuals
are phylogenetically close.
I didn’t read anything about whether the negative controls for the PCR were ever
positive.
I am curious why the authors did not include DNA sequence data useful for making
phylogenetic trees as a more robust estimate of phylogenetic relatedness. Their goal
is to infer relatedness but they adopted approaches that do not provide reliable
phylogenetic inference. I am guessing that mtDNA would be easy to extract and
sequences given that they were able to successfully use PCR to amplify fragment
sizes as large as 300 base pairs. Why not include mtDNA data?
In the discussion I would like to see a clear statements of the relevant results and
corresponding claims that stem from the evidence. It should begin with the most
important results. This starts with the first sentence..
“Bayesian genotype clustering analyses revealed a Lahontan CT lineage that had
been extirpated from the Truckee River Basin in the 1940s and was believed to be
extinct.”
I think the authors are stating that the genetic analysis revealed that a distinct CT
lineage that was once believed to be extinct exists outside of its native range,
presumably saved from extinction by early stocking efforts. But it is not just the
Bayesian data that allows the authors to make this claim. They are using other
information because the assignment results can not allow this claim by themselves.
I reproduced the evidence here. It is the blue color. Based on the results provided,
the assignment (not clustering) algorithm looks like Pilot Peak is a unique lineage
with some shared genotypes with another group of fish from multiple localities that
do not assign well to any particular group. That is my assessment of the evidence
that is devoid of any statistical support. Without other cutthroat trout (other than
Lahontan fish), there is no way to say that the clustering analyses revealed a
Lahontan CT.
L332 The authors also wrote…”Bayesian analyses of the Humboldt River
populations…does not support as close a relationship as the range wide analyses
suggests.” I think the authors are confusing what assignment results indicate
(probability of assignment to particular a posteriori groups) with relatedness
among groups.
Lines 400-404. The first statement ended by a comma is confusing unless the reader
knows the details of the story present in citation 59.
If the authors are going to put the STRUCTURE and PCA plots together, they should
use the same color schemes for the populations between the two analyses.
It is curious that stocking is not mentioned. Was stocking not an issue in Nevada?
L402. What makes the genetic structuring significant? I didn’t see any statistical
tests and I am unsure whether inferred structure is historically or biologically
significant since you can have very strong genetic structure due to bottlenecks.
Distinguishing between significance due to sampling issues (like a bottleneck) and
long term demographic isolation seems like it would be very important, especially
given the conservation emphasis of the paper.
L411 I am unsure whether the detection of multiple genotype clusters suggests the
presence of a migratory life history.
Overall, the data and the results need to be published because this is an important
contribution to our understanding of Lahontan CT diversity. However, the paper
needs more focus and, more importantly, needs some sequence data that can
support claims about relatedness and needs to included other taxa (other than
Lahontan fish) that would allow claims about whether the Pilot Peak fish are
Lahontan CT fish or not.
At this time, I can’t recommend publication until the claims are more aligned with
what the methods actually show (there are multiple groups and most groups are
heterogeneous). So, for example, all that can be stated based on the results below is
that most collections of fish are a heterogeneous mix when STRUCTURE assumes
there are as many groups as collection localities.
pendix B
al Society
nuscript ID RSOS-160836 entitled "Return of a giant: using museum specimens to identify a unique
hroat trout lineage thought to be extinct"
iewers' Comments to Author:
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
attached.
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
is fantastic and much-needed work on a species that is of important conservation concern, as well
f incredible interest from basic evolutionary biology perspectives. The manuscript does an excellent
integrating historical information about hydrological changes in the Western US over the past 15k
rs with information about human impacts in the past hundreds of years. This is crucial background
the interpretation of the very interesting genetic results that the authors present. The authors find
ence for high levels geographic structure within historical populations of Lahontan cutthroat trout
g genetic information gleaned from historical museum specimens. Additionally, they find evidence
t the Pilot Peak hatchery stock of Lahontan cutthroat trout is descended from the now extirpated
strine populations of the Western Lahontan basin.
is a fascinating manuscript and will be a great resource once published for those interested in the
ory of cutthroat trout in the Western USA. I have several comments I would like to see the authors
ddress to clarify their methods/results. Most crucially, the authors need to improve their
sentation of the results in Figures 5, 6, and 7 such that these figures are more easily interpretable to
ders who are not familiar with these fishes. I also point to several minor issues that would improve
manuscript.
hor Response: We wish to thank the reviewer for their enthusiasm for the paper’s topic. We have
de major changes to the manuscript as follows:
The authors state in the text of the manuscript that they performed Principal Components
lysis of their microsatellite data (e.g. line 262). However, their figures (5-7) describe what they have
e as Principal Coordinates Analysis (PCoA). It is important that the authors clarify what analysis they
e done (and how they have done it), and either correct their methods/results, or correct their
res. Additionally, it would be beneficial for the authors to include the loadings on other PC axes as
plemental information, as well as plots of these additional axes, since these additional axes explain
stantial variation as well.
hor Response: We conducted PCoA in GenAlEX and clarified the text on this point. We also included
hree plots in each figure with PCoA plots as well as the loadings on all axes.
The authors present average cluster membership on a population level from their STRUCTURE
lyses in Figure 6 (and potentially Figure 5? This is not clear) rather than individual-level assignment
a. I would strongly recommend that the authors instead plot the individual-level data, as the
ation in membership within groups is interesting to see and an important part of the interpretation
TRUCTURE results.
hor Response: All of the STRUCTURE plots are now individually based.
Connected to point #2, it would be highly beneficial for the authors to include a map associated
h at least the main STRUCTURE figure result (Figure 5) so it would be possible to more readily
rpret the geographic structure present within the results. As readers do not have the locations of
se sites memorized, help interpreting the geographic context of these results would be highly
eficial. Furthermore, as it is only code names listed on Figure 5 (panel C) it is currently impossible to
erstand the geography of the genetic structure being presented here, and that makes it difficult to
rpret/evaluate the results in light of the information presented in the discussion.
hor Response: We have added a range map with all of the major rivers indicated with color and color
ed the STRUCTURE plot to correspond with the maps. We have also added a corresponding map for
h of the additional STRUCTURE plots with sampling locations indicated and color coded to match
s.
articular, the authors’ interpretation that there are “multiple genotype clusters in the museum
ples, which span both Lake Tahoe, the Truckee River, and Pyramid Lake” is fascinating. In order for
ders to be able to see this result in the data, however, it is crucial that the authors provide specific
rmation about a) where museum specimens were collected (I realize this information is included in
le 1, but it would be much more valuable plotted on a map accompanying the Figure), and b) what
otype groups those individuals belong to based on STRUCTURE results. Adding this information
uld add tremendous value to this work.
hor Response: We have added location data for the museum samples on the map of the Truckee
r basin and color coded locations to match.
The connection to work showing the vast difference in growth rates of the previously stocked
ins in Pyramid Lake versus the Pilot Peak strain in Pyramid Lake is fascinating. What is not clear in
current version of the manuscript is what the “contemporary Pyramid Lake strain of mixed stock
estry” (line 396) actually is genetically. Did the authors genotype these fish? This is not crucial for this
nuscript, but please clarify. Additionally, it would benefit the paper to move discussion of this history
yramid lake (i.e. historical efforts to restore cutthroat versus introduction of the Pilot Peak strain) to
introduction.
hor Response: We added the populations that were used to develop the contemporary Pyramid Lake
in. We also genotyped contemporary Pyramid Lake strain fish but although we did not include them
he STRUCTURE analysis, we did add a Cavalli-Sforza neighbor joining phylogenetic tree showing the
tionship between the contemporary Pyramid Lake strain, Independence Lake, the Pilot Peak strain,
the museum samples. We also moved the discussion of the history of LCT in Pyramid Lake including
ation of the contemporary strain to the introduction.
or issues:
her than the cumbersome “Natural Log of the Probability of the Data” as a y-axis label on Figures 5,
nd 7, “LnP(D)” is sufficient (and I would argue preferable).
hor Response: We made this correction on all STRUCTURE plots
A extraction and genotyping methods from historical samples are well described and documented.
wever, it is not clear if/which/how many of the museum samples were fixed in formalin versus only
served in ethanol. Including this information, and information on relative success at extraction of
malin-preserved specimens (if indeed you have samples from both formalin and ethanol), would be
ly beneficial for readers who dream of successfully working on the genetics of formalin fixed
ples.
hor Response: All of the samples were originally in formalin and then moved to ethanol at some
nt in the past by the museum personnel. We received all samples in 70% ethanol. We have clarified
in the methods section. In our experience, successful DNA extraction for formalin fixed samples
es greatly depending on original collector, duration of fixation and size of specimen. Tissues from
er specimens tend to be less perfused. We have added more detail to this section and cited more
ent work as well.
ould be nice to shade or color code the current and historical range of the subspecies within the
in map of Figure 1.
hor response: We have added a colored map with all of the major rivers occupied indicated.
ough we have not added a map showing currently occupied versus historically occupied we have
ed verbiage to indicate the huge losses in habitat this subspecies has experienced and have added
ps with estimates of currently occupied habitat in supplemental material.
herine Wagner
versity of Wyoming
iewer 2
cock et al. assembled a data set of microsatellite genotypes from museum and modern samples of
hroat trout throughout their range in an effort to identify whether a unique lake-form extinct in its
ve range is present in a locality outside of its native range. The work is an important contribution
vant for conservation actions.
hor Response: Thank you for your interest in our work. We appreciate the attention to detail in the
gested changes and agree that the original flow was difficult to follow. Based on the suggestions
vided, we have substantially restructured the manuscript for clarity.
ical comments
main concern with this paper is that it is too long for the message being delivered and the
sentation of the results and language of the paper often makes it difficult to extract the relevant
rmation.
example, the first figure showing the STRUCTURE and PCA results is confusing and I am not exactly
e of the main purposes of the figure. It might be worth putting some of the details in a
plementary document and then presenting a STRUCTURE analysis that mirrors the PCA analysis in
ms of groups so that the two graphs can be directly compared (visually). One way to better connect
two graphs is to make the colors for each population the same.
hor response: We have redone all of the results figures. We dropped one locus OCH10 due to lack of
otypes at this locus for many of the museum individuals. Although removing this locus resulted in
er genotype clusters in the range wide analysis, the results from 6 loci were very similar to analyses
on a subset of these populations that we conducted with 18 loci (Peacock et al. 2010. The
lutionarily significant unit concept and the role of translocated populations in preserving the genetic
cy of Lahontan cutthroat trout. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 139:382-395).
ortunately – not all of the 18 loci amplified in the museum samples so we were restricted to using
6 that consistently amplified in the museum samples.
reran STRUCURE using the 6 loci and updated the plots. The first STRUCTURE plot in figure 5 is the
ge wide river basin analysis. We have included a range map with color coded rivers consistent with
colors on the STRUCTURE plot as well as a Cavalli-Sforza neighbor joining tree also color coded in
figure.
ight be worth structuring the paper with subheadings that reflect the purpose of what is being done.
example, one subheading might read “Are Pilot Peak fish Lahontan Cutthroat trout?” “Which
orical population is putatively most similar to the Pilot Peak fish?” Etc.
hor Response: We have added citations in the introduction of both earlier and very recent work
lsen and Sage 2002; Salam et al. 2017), which used both microsatellite data and RADSeq data to
fy that the Pilot Peak strain was a Lahontan cutthroat trout. We have also reorganized the results as
gested into separate sections starting with the discussion of the range wide results and the river of
in for the Pilot Peak stain, then the Truckee River basin including Pilot Peak, Independence Lake and
museum samples, and finally the results of an analysis of population genetic structure in the
seum samples alone.
ould be very useful to use symbols with colors on a map to summarize the data for how groups are
graphically distributed. If a map is constructed, it would be good to show the sites in Utah as well.
hor response: As mentioned above we have added a range map with all major rivers color coded,
ching color codes in both the Bayesian genotype clustering results and a Cavalli-Sforza neighbor
ing tree.
claims in the figure descriptions may not be true. For example, PCA does not show subpopulations.
shows the similarity of individuals in multivariate space.
hor Response: We have clarified the subpopulation designation by constructing phylogenetic trees
populations included in each spatial level of analysis.
erting there are subpopulations is a claim that stems from an interpretation of what the PCA shows.
founding evidence and claims happens repeatedly in this paper and I think the authors need to be
re careful and deliberate in how the evidence allows them to make the claims they make. Moreover,
nk the authors need to make it clear that closeness on PCA space may not mean that the individuals
phylogenetically close.
hor Response: By adding phylogenetic trees and more discussion of prior analyses of ESUs we have
mpted to clarified relationships among populations.
n’t read anything about whether the negative controls for the PCR were ever positive.
hor response: We included negative controls through the extraction and PCR protocols and
firmed at each step that no contamination from modern samples was present.
curious why the authors did not include DNA sequence data useful for making phylogenetic trees as
ore robust estimate of phylogenetic relatedness. Their goal is to infer relatedness but they adopted
roaches that do not provide reliable phylogenetic inference. I am guessing that mtDNA would be
y to extract and sequences given that they were able to successfully use PCR to amplify fragment
s as large as 300 base pairs. Why not include mtDNA data?
hor Response: For the current work, mtDNA data were not variable enough to resolve within
/DPS relationships and so unable to answer the questions we were interested in especially
tionships at the multiple spatial scales we were examining. Recently, and post our analyses, Saglam
l. 2017 used RADseq SNP data and although these data clearly distinguish the different subspecies of
hroat trout in addition to some of the major rivers within the Lahontan cutthroat trout, the Pilot
k strain is in a polytomic clade with Independence Lake and populations from the Humboldt and
son.
have increased our discussion of prior analyses using mtDNA sequence data (Williams et al. 1992,
8; Shiozawa and Evans 1995, 1998) which showed divergence between the western (Truckee,
son, Walker rivers) DPS and the eastern (Humboldt and Reese rivers) DPS.
he discussion I would like to see a clear statement of the relevant results and corresponding claims
t stem from the evidence. It should begin with the most important results. This starts with the first
tence.
yesian genotype clustering analyses revealed a Lahontan CT lineage that had been extirpated from
Truckee River Basin in the 1940s and was believed to be extinct.”
nk the authors are stating that the genetic analysis revealed that a distinct CT lineage that was once
eved to be extinct exists outside of its native range, presumably saved from extinction by early
king efforts. But it is not just the Bayesian data that allows the authors to make this claim. They are
g other information because the assignment results cannot allow this claim by themselves.
hor Response: We have restructured the discussion substantially based on these comments which
e been very helpful. The opening paragraph now summarizes both the main results of this study and
es that together with morphological and meristic data from earlier work support the hypothesis that
population of Lahontan cutthroat trout is a lascutrine strain native to the Truckee River Basin.
produced the evidence here. It is the blue color. Based on the results provided, the assignment (not
tering) algorithm looks like Pilot Peak is a unique lineage with some shared genotypes with another
up of fish from multiple localities that do not assign well to any particular group. That is my
essment of the evidence that is devoid of any statistical support. Without other cutthroat trout
er than Lahontan fish), there is no way to say that the clustering analyses revealed a Lahontan CT.
hor Response: We removed one of the loci from the analysis (OCH10) due to lack of amplification in
mber of the museum samples and reran the analyses. The results show Pilot Peak, Independence
the museum samples to assign primarily to a single genotype cluster although museum individuals
assign to the Humboldt River genotype cluster which reflects known hydrographic history. In a
arate paper (Peacock et al. 2010) we used 18 microsatellite loci and show strong major watershed
ed assignment. Although we do not have the Truckee River and museum in this 18 loci analysis we
a similar pattern to what we observe with 6 loci.
have added phylogenetic analyses which show that Pilot Peak is indeed a Lahontan cutthroat trout
that it is most closely related to the Truckee River museum samples. We also cite a recently
lished paper (Saglam IK, et al. 2017. Genomic analysis reveals genetic distinctiveness of the Paiute
hroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarkii seleniris). T. Am. Fish. Soc. TAFS-2017-0010), which examines the
logenetic relationship among cutthroat trout subspecies and among LCT populations within major
r drainages using RADseq data. The following figure is the phylogenetic tree based upon the RADseq
a which has been reproduced for an American Fisheries Society volume on the revised taxonomy of
hroat trout (from Peacock et al. in press)
2 The authors also wrote…”Bayesian analyses of the Humboldt River populations…does not support
lose a relationship as the range wide analyses suggests.” I think the authors are confusing what
gnment results indicate (probability of assignment to particular a posteriori groups) with relatedness
ong groups.
hor response: We agree that this wording was unclear and have addressed this concern
s 400-404. The first statement ended by a comma is confusing unless the reader knows the details of
story present in citation 59.
hor Response: We have removed this sentence and reference 59 altogether as it not really necessary
he discussion.
he authors are going to put the STRUCTURE and PCA plots together, they should use the same color
emes for the populations between the two analyses.
hor Response: We have color coded all PCA and STRUCTURE plots
curious that stocking is not mentioned. Was stocking not an issue in Nevada?
hor response: We do mention stocking (lines 121-126) and yes stocking has been an issue in Nevada.
st of the stocking of Lahontan cutthroat trout involved moving fish from the western basin DPS (Lake
oe and Pyramid Lake) to streams in Humboldt River. Resolving the impact of these stocking events is
ongoing challenge. However, we do not feel that this stocking has obscured the phylogenetic
tionships. Given the morphological and meristic characteristics of the Pilot Peak strain indicating a
origin and the fact that we have clear river based genotype clusters allows us to identify the Pilot
k as Truckee River basin cutthroat trout (Fig. 5). The phylogenetic analyses also support this
clusion. Phylogenetic analysis of samples within the Truckee River basin also show that the Pilot Peak
museum samples are more closely related than the museum samples and Independence Lake
hroat trout (Fig. 6).
2. What makes the genetic structuring significant? I didn’t see any statistical tests and I am unsure
ther inferred structure is historically or biologically significant since you can have very strong genetic
cture due to bottlenecks. Distinguishing between significance due to sampling issues (like a
tleneck) and long term demographic isolation seems like it would be very important, especially given
conservation emphasis of the paper.
hor Response: We used the <U+0394>k method of Evanno et al. (2005) to identify the numbers of genotype
ters with the best statistical support within the museum samples. Although bottlenecks have
ainly been an issue for Lahontan cutthroat trout populations in the 20th century due to human
turbations, the museum samples were collected when this area was still sparsely populated. None of
historical museum sampling locations revealed bottlenecks under the TPM or SMM models in
TLENECK. We are also including a Cavalli-Sforza neighbor joining phylogenetic tree which
inguishes the sampling locations from one another (Fig. 7). However, this Bayesian analysis also
ngly supports movement within the Truckee River watershed historically in addition to structure.
re is no evidence for genetic bottlenecks in Independence Lake population which also has
ntained genetic variation comparable to the museum samples (Ho = 0.683, Na = 2-13). We realize
t comparing the museum samples, which were collected >100 years ago, to extant populations with
ard to historic population structure is problematic, the only point we wish to make here and have
ified the text to this end, is that the Pilot Peak LCT differ from the Independence Lake LCT and the
t are more similar to the historical museum samples. We have added phylogenetic analyses to clarify
se relationships.
1 I am unsure whether the detection of multiple genotype clusters suggests the presence of a
ratory life history. Overall, the data and the results need to be published because this is an important
tribution to our understanding of Lahontan CT diversity. However, the paper needs more focus and,
re importantly, needs some sequence data that can support claims about relatedness and needs to
uded other taxa (other than Lahontan fish) that would allow claims about whether the Pilot Peak fish
Lahontan CT fish or not.
hor Response: We have published multiple papers where we have used Bayesian genotyping
tering analysis to show movement within the remaining Lahontan cutthroat trout interconnected
ams systems (Neville et al. 2006; Peacock et al. 2010; Neville et al. 2017). The inland cutthroat trout
known to have both resident and migratory life histories. Assignment tests allow us to ask questions
ut gene flow and individual movement. Yes we are limited in what we can say about migratory and
dent life histories but the body of evidence to date suggests that this subspecies does exhibit aspects
etapopulation dynamics, as well as age related movement and resident and migratory life histories
he remaining large interconnected streams systems. Using the same type of evidence we conclude
t the Truckee River historically likely exhibited this same patterns observed in extant stream
works.
his time, I can’t recommend publication until the claims are more aligned with what the methods
ually show (there are multiple groups and most groups are heterogeneous). So, for example, all that
be stated based on the results below is that most collections of fish are a heterogeneous mix when
UCTURE assumes there are as many groups as collection localities.
hor Response: The STRUCTURE results from this paper (revised version) and earlier studies show a
ng river based Bayesian genotype clustering pattern (Fig. 5; Peacock et al. 2010). In addition to Fst
parisons which support an isolation-by-distance pattern within and among watersheds (Peacock and
hoff 2007), the river based Bayesian results show rivers to be genetically distinct which is supported
he hydrographic history of the Lahontan basin (Benson and Thompson 1987; Reheis et al. 2002).
en analyzed at different spatial scales (within watersheds) additional Bayesian clusters are revealed
h support movement patterns, but not panmixia, among populations within watersheds (Neville et al.
6; Peacock et al. 2010).
have attempted to respond in detail to the concerns raised and hope that this revision provides a
rer picture of the intriguing history of LCT.
Appendix C
Review of Peacock et al
This is the second time I reviewed this paper. My first important comment is that
the work is difficult and important. It is difficult because the data come from
historical samples that have suffered degradation and working with “ancient” DNA
is, as I said, difficult. However, for understanding the current diversity of
endangered trout, working with ancient DNA is absolutely essential. The work is
important because we need to know WHAT requires conservation and the
investment of resources. Using historic samples to help clarify this is the only way to
know, with some certainty, what should be done.
While the authors have done excellent work towards the goal of discovering
whether the Pilot Peak fish are from the Truckee River basin, I think there is
insufficient emphasis on uncertainty of their inferences, especially since they lack a
formal phylogenetic analysis based on nucleotide sequences.
The authors assert “… Lahontan cutthroat trout found in an out-of-basin stream in the
Pilot Peak Mountains of Utah are native to the Truckee River Basin in the western
Lahontan hydrograph basin.” This statement lacks uncertainty.
One reason I am skeptical is that their claim really depends on a phylogeographic
analysis based on phylogenetic methods. Cluster analysis of microsatellite allele
frequencies does not have a robust evolutionary model and the resulting clustering is
unlikely to reveal phylogeny. Moreover if we compare the Saglam et al inference of
phylogeny from sequence data differs markedly from the Peacock tree (see below). If
there was mixing in the past, there should be uncertainty about the ancestral geography of
any of the Lahontan trout.
So I am in favor of publication provided the authors emphasize uncertainty and perhaps
shorten the story a bit because it seems a little too long relative to other papers in the
journal.
BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT
Appendix D
October 11, 2017
Associate Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Response to Reviewers:
We have made the changes suggested by the reviewer and subject editor to “Return of a giant: DNA from
archival museum samples helps to identify a unique cutthroat trout lineage formerly thought to be extinct”. The
manuscript has been shortened and we added statements regarding uncertainty given our use of microsatellite
loci and museum specimens. All of the necessary end statements have been included:
Ethics. Fin clips were provided to us by state and federal land and species management agencies. All samples
obtained from the University of Nevada Reno collections were collected prior to this study and under protocols
approved by the UNR Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC).
Data accessibility. We have deposited the genetic data (microsatellite genotypes) for this paper in DRYAD:
doi:10.5061/dryad.24cc7
Authors’ contribution. MMP, ERH, and LGH conceived of and designed the study. VSK modified and refined
the DNA isolation technique for formalin preserved samples, completed all of the laboratory work, and
genotyping. MMP and VSK conducted the genetic analyses. MMP, ERH, and VSK wrote the manuscript.
Competing interests. We have no competing interests.
Funding. All funding was provided by the Lahontan National Fish Hatchery Complex, United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, award #F14AP00350 to Mary Peacock.
Acknowledgements. We thank the USFWS Lahontan National Fish Hatchery Complex for their collaboration,
funding, and comments on earlier drafts of this manuscript. We also thank the Pyramid Lake Paiute tribe for
providing samples of the contemporary Pyramid Lake strain maintained in their hatchery. Helen Neville
reviewed earlier drafts of this manuscript and provided insightful comments. We thank David Catania at
California Academy of Sciences http://www.calacademy.org/, Carole Baldwin, Shirleen Smith and Jeff
Williams at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History https://naturalhistory.si.edu/, and Douglas
Nelson at University of Michigan Natural History Museum https://lsa.umich.edu/ummnh/ for access to their
Lahontan cutthroat trout collections. We also thank Kris Krus of the Nevada Genomics Center
http://www.ag.unr.edu/genomics/. The findings and conclusions in this article are those of the authors and do
not necessarily represent the views of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
College of Science
University of Nevada, Reno/0314
Reno, Nevada 89557-0314
(775) 784-6188 office
(775) 784-1302 fax
BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT
As stated with the original submission this research is original and the data presented in this paper have not
been published or submitted for publication elsewhere.
Sincerely,
Mary M Peacock, Ph.D.
Associate Professor
Department of Biology
Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biology Graduate Program
University of Nevada, Reno
Reno, Nevada 89557
(775) 784-1958
(775) 784-1302 fax
mpeacock@unr.edu
College of Science
University of Nevada, Reno/0314
Reno, Nevada 89557-0314
(775) 784-6188 office
(775) 784-1302 fax
Society Open
