Adjustment errors of sunstones in the first step of sky-
polarimetric Viking navigation: studies with dichroic
cordierite tourmaline and birefringent calcite crystals
Dénes Száz, Alexandra Farkas, Miklós Blahó, András Barta, Ádám Egri, Balázs Kretzer,
Tibor Hegedüs, Zoltán Jäger and Gábor Horváth
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150406.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150406
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 August 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 October 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150406.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Gordon Love)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I checked the supplementary material and could not see the raw data (or indeed any other data).
This needs to be addressed.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very interesting paper on a fascinating topic which I think will be of broad interest. As
the authors state - this is an old question which has caused much controversy. This paper can not
be said to have fully solved the mystery - but the results are an important step in the process.
The paper is rather long - and contains a lot of data. The authors must therefore be complimented
on the rigour of the study. However, I wonder if they might consider moving some of the
material to supplementary data. I don't have very strong feelings on this - but the editor may like
to comment.
My specific comments are as follows. Assuming the authors can address these then I recommend
publication.
1. Minor point - the authors use the term "birefringency". I think "birefringence" is the more
usually accepted term
2. I found conclusion no 7. to be rather confusing. My problem is that I don't see how one can
have an adjustment error when the degree of polarisation is less then the minimum detectable
level.
3. In a similar topic to 2. why are navigation errors shown (for example in table 2) for degrees of
polarisation which are less than the minimum detectable - which I read to be around 20%.
Apologies if I have misinterpreted the data - but if I am confused by these points then I expect
others will be as well.
4. Can you clarify the figure 9a. Are these photos taken with a polariser or not?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Tim Freegarde)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is no supplementary material; the paper is self-contained.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I am pleased to provide my review of the manuscript "Adjustment errors of sunstones in the first
step of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation: studies with dichroic cordierite/tourmaline and
birefringent calcite crystals" by D Szaz, A Farkas, M Blaho, A Barta, A Egri, B Kretzer, T Hegedus,
Z Jaeger and G Horvath. I'm sorry that, as expected, I was unable to reply more promptly.
Overall, I found this a most interesting paper. The scientific approach appears to be rigorous,
thorough and sound, and the uncomplicated analysis yields important results. The work is
certainly worthy of publication. The paper was mostly well written, and the English intelligible
throughout, although some sections require - and the manuscript would benefit from throughout
- the attention of a native English speaker. Subject to these linguistic amendments, the paper
could be published as it is in the Royal Society's Open Science journal.
The editor might however feel that the paper would benefit from greater clarity and brevity, for
the 53 rather wordy pages seem excessive for such a paper and the key conclusions are somewhat
disguised amongst the mass of experimental and numerical detail. It should be possible, without
any loss of information, to halve the length of the paper, and the result would almost certainly be
more readable. The abstract and conclusion could represent more obviously (and quantitatively)
the conclusion that navigation to a given angular accuracy can be achieved in skies characterized
by a given degree of polarization. Many of the numerical details, which currently are described in
the main text, would be more clearly, concisely and usefully summarized as tables or graphs,
and/or appendices; and some of the tables might be better shown graphically. Some of the
experimental descriptions are a little scrambled, and could be improved by rearranging into a
different order.
While it would not change the conclusions of the paper, I also felt that the presentation of the
experimental results could be more conventionally expressed by reference to means and
variances/standard deviations and quadrature sums, rather than to ranges, magnitudes and
linear sums. In particular: a range is entirely determined by the outlying points; and the lower
value of the magnitude (|x|) is essentially meaningless. It would be helpful to distinguish more
clearly between the purely experimental results, and those (eg navigational accuracy) that have
been derived theoretically from them. A few missing, misplaced or unclear definitions and
experimental details should also be added.
It would be kind to mention somewhere in the abstract and main text what sort of navigational
accuracy the authors conclude to be possible. In evaluating this, the current conclusions
regarding the adequacy of these methods are based upon rather subjective assumptions of the
navigational accuracy required. 10deg is probably comparable with the errors from tide, waves,
wind/leeway and helming errors. Furthermore, a systematic error such as the diurnal variation
would be quickly learned and compensated.
Specific details are given below.
abstract the phrasing leaves the reader unclear as to the meaning of p+ which, together
with p*, should be clearly defined at the beginning of the main text
abstract a numerical result should be given - ie the navigational accuracy possible in
given conditions
abstract description of the adjustment errors and polarization p+ values could be
omitted from the abstract
p4 line 26 this paragraph describes separately two very similar papers by Ramskou, which
could be more succinctly and clearly described together
p6 section 2.1 this long section would be improved by describing first the general
arrangement, and then the specific details of experiments 1 and 2. The optical arrangement would
4
be more clearly described as a fixed number of diffusing screens with a range of different
polarizer positions (rather than 'number of depolarizers'). Many of the less important details
could be relegated to an appendix.
p6 section 2.1 it is apparent only from the acknowledgements that the experimental groups
were drawn from an overall number of 11 test subjects. I doubt whether it matters that there was
therefore both overlap and difference between the different groups, but this should nonetheless
be made clear
p9 line 49 the p values are quoted to an improbable level of precision. This is also the case
elsewhere in the paper, where other data also suffer similarly
p9 line 53 the phrasing could indicate more clearly that the masking was achieved during
data processing, rather than physically in the experiment. Perhaps 'excluded' would be better
than 'masked'. The authors might explain why the exclusion of p>90% was considered
appropriate, given that figure 3 shows the angle judgement to be insensitive to the degree of
polarization at such levels.
p10 line 6 the reference to motional artefacts came as a bit of a surprise, and could do with
some expansion
p12 line 31 it would be more conventional (though not of significance to the conclusions) to
combine the mean and standard deviation in quadrature (ie square root of the sum of the
squares), so as to correspond to the variance about zero. The linear sum given is a good
indication, but not a usable statistical parameter
p12 line 45 the value of 22.5deg assumes no systematic error. With a systematic error, the
mean could exceed 22.5deg but the data still have a small variance.
p17 line 6 it would be helpful to remind the reader of the total number of cases (100) of
which n is the fraction. This whole section would be better much earlier in the paper.
p19 line 8 it would be kind to mention that the surprising result about the effect of
polishing (if true) is addressed later in the paper
p19 the error functions listed here, and some of the preceding details, would
be more clearly summarized in a table as the parameters of a general formula. The use of
percentages makes unclear whether a 5% polarization corresponds in the expressions given to a
value for p of 0.05 or 5. It might be clearer to avoid reference to percentages throughout the
paper. There is no discussion of the significance (or otherwise) of the variation in fit parameters
between different calcite crystals, and no indication of their uncertainties. Much of this
information might be better relegated to an appendix.
p20 section 3.2.2 this paragraph is one of many that could be more concisely and usefully
reduced to a few words of text and a table of values, which any interested reader would currently
have to compile for him/herself
p21 line 11 "close to zero" could perhaps be quantified
p21 line 40 in the absence of error bars for the precision and reproducibility of the data of
Table 4, this seems a bold conclusion. The variance ranges are large, and determined by the
outlying cases. What were the mean variances? The average of the range extremes for calcites 2
and 3 for task 1 were (42, 41), (32 and 31) - ie a factor of 4/3. Is this true of the mean variances? Is
it significant?
p24 line 22 while tangential to the main thrust of the paper, this is an interesting finding. I
don't understand the explanation offered, so perhaps this could be more clearly articulated. The
conclusion about the relative 'comfort' of the two methods seems unjustified.
discussion this largely repeats earlier material; other parts might sit more happily in earlier
sections
table 1 although nmax is given in the caption, it is not obvious at first sight. Could the data not
be presented as fractions (eg 0.64 instead of 64)?
tables 2, 3 as noted above for p12 line 31, it might be more conventional and useful to
combine the different error contributions in quadrature
table 4 the lower bound of the range of |x| is of no significance unless all values of x have the
same sign, which is not stated in the article. The range of |x| might therefore be replaced by the
maximum value alone. Since even this is determined by the outlying points, though, would it not
be both more conventional and more useful to give the mean and variance?
5
Tim Freegarde, University of Southampton
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150406)
06-Oct-2015
Dear Dr Horvath,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Adjustment errors of sunstones in the first step of sky-
polarimetric Viking navigation: Studies with cordierite, tourmaline and calcite crystals") has now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 29-Oct-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
6
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150406
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150406)
See Appendix A.
7
label_version_2
RSOS-150406.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Tim Freegarde)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have responded to most of the comments made by the two reviewers. However, the
paper is still exceptionally long for its content. I do not propose to rewrite it myself. I therefore
leave it to the editor to decide whether the current length is acceptable.
The authors state in a couple of places that they have rejected improvements for consistency with
earlier publications. I consider this mistaken. The combination of uncertainties in a conventional
and statistically meaningful fashion would make the paper more intelligible and useful. A
footnote could explain the difference from previous presentations. Similarly, if more clarity
would result by avoiding the use of percentages, previous use does not justify their retention.
The authors do not seem to have addressed my point about their subjective assessment of the
navigational accuracy required. To conclude that "our results do not support the frequently
occurring speculation that the Viking navigators could use sunstones even under foggy or
overcast conditions" requires some assumptions about how well the Vikings needed to know
their orientation (and how well they might have corrected for systematic errors). As a sailor who
would do well to maintain a track to within 10deg after wind and tide, I would be more
optimistic. The point though is that, whether or not the conclusion is true, it is unjustified.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150406.R1)
03-Dec-2015
Dear Dr Horvath:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150406.R1
entitled "Adjustment errors of sunstones in the first step of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation:
Studies with cordierite, tourmaline and calcite crystals" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150406.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
9
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 12-Dec-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Sceince
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
10
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150406)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
Dear Editorial Office of Royal Society Open Science
and
Professor Emilie Aime,
thank you for your letter of 6 October 2015 in which you sent me the comments of two
Referees about our manuscript RSOS-150406 entitled
Adjustment errors of sunstones in the first step of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation:
Studies with dichroic cordierite/tourmaline and birefringent calcite crystals
by Dénes Száz, Alexandra Farkas, Miklós Blahó, András Barta, Ádám Egri, Balázs Kretzer,
Tibor Hegedüs, Zoltán Jäger and Gábor Horváth
Our paper was revised on the basis of the two reviews. In our revised manuscript all
relevant changes suggested by Reviewer 1 and Reviewer 2 and required by the Editor are
marked in blue, violet and green, respectively. We gave detailed responses to all points of
both Reviewers.
I would like to submit our revised paper to the Royal Society Open Science.
Sincerely yours: Gábor Horváth (corresponding author)
Dr. Gábor Horváth (D.Sc.)
Environmental Optics Laboratory,
Department of Biological Physics,
Physical Institute,
Eötvös University,
H-1117 Budapest, Pázmány sétány 1, Hungary
e-mail: gh@arago.elte.hu
homepage: http://arago.elte.hu
Point-by-Point Response to the Comments of Reviewer 1
Many thanks for the positive and constructive comments of Referee 1. Our manuscript was
revised on the basis of the comments of two Reviewers. In our revised manuscript all
relevant changes suggested by Reviewer 1 and Reviewer 2 and required by the Editor are
marked in blue, violet and green, respectively. Here we give our detailed response to the
points of Reviewer 1.
Reviewer 1 wrote: The paper is rather long - and contains a lot of data. The authors
must therefore be complimented on the rigour of the study. However, I wonder if they
might consider moving some of the material to supplementary data. I don't have very
strong feelings on this - but the editor may like to comment.
Answer: As suggested also by Referee 2, in our revised manuscript some data and materials
are moved to the Supplementary Material.
Reviewer 1 wrote: 1. Minor point - the authors use the term "birefringency". I think
"birefringence" is the more usually accepted term.
Answer: As suggested, the term ’birefringency’ is replaced by ’birefringence’ throughout
the revised manuscript.
Reviewer 1 wrote: 2. I found conclusion no 7. to be rather confusing. My problem is
that I don't see how one can have an adjustment error when the degree of
polarisation is less then the minimum detectable level.
Answer: Yes, Referee 1 is right. Here, p* was used erroneously. It was replaced by pcrit. In
the revised Abstract and Conclusion we changed the criticized sentences as follows:
Abstract: ”For higher p (> pcrit) of incident light the adjustment errors of calcite are larger
than those of the dichroic cordierite (pcrit = 20 %) and tourmaline (pcrit = 45 %), while for
lower p (< pcrit) calcite usually has lower adjustment errors than dichroic sunstones.”
Conclusions: ”(7) We found that for higher degrees of polarization p (> pcrit) of incident light
the adjustment errors of calcite are larger than those of the dichroic cordierite (pcrit = 20 %)
and tourmaline (pcrit = 45 %) crystals, while for lower p (< pcrit) calcite usually has lower
adjustment errors than dichroic sunstones (Fig. 4).”
Note that pcrit differs from p* (being the lowest p-value at which the test persons can
yet detect the maxima and minima of the sinusoidally changing intensity of light
transmitted through the rotating dichroic sunstone crystals.) and p+ (being the
threshold of p, under which no equal intensity of the two light spots can be detected
in calcite sunstones).
Reviewer 1 wrote: 3. In a similar topic to 2, why are navigation errors shown (for
example in table 2) for degrees of polarisation which are less than the minimum
detectable - which I read to be around 20%. Apologies if I have misinterpreted the
data - but if I am confused by these points then I expect others will be as well.
Answer: Here pmax is the relevant parameter, rather than pave. Already for the overcast sky
condition 1, pmax = 38.04 % > p* ˜ 20 %. Thus, in our revised manuscript, Tables 3 and 6
were changed as follows:
Table 3: The net navigation error <U+F053> <U+F03D> <U+03C9>morning
max <U+F02B> <U+03C9>afternoon
max for the most (sky 1 in Fig. 6) and
least (sky 10 in Fig. 6) cloudy sky at summer solstice (21 June) and spring equinox (21
March). pmax = maximum of the degree of sky polarization calculated for the non-excluded
sky regions.
<U+F053> <U+F03D> <U+03C9>morning
max <U+F02B> <U+03C9>afternoon
max
sky in Fig. 6 1: overcast 10: almost clear
pmax (%) 38.04 77.25
solstice equinox solstice equinox
cordierite -10o -10o -1o -1o
tourmaline -15o -17o 0o 0o
Table 6: Net navigation error <U+F053> <U+F03D> <U+03C9>morning
max <U+F02B> <U+03C9>afternoon
max for the most (sky 1 in Figs. 7 and 8)
and least (sky 10 in Figs. 7 and 8) cloudy sky in task 1 (equal intensity adjustment) and task
2 (maximal contrast adjustment) for the four studied calcite crystals at summer solstice (21
June) and spring equinox (21 March). pmax = maximum of the degree p of sky polarization
calculated for the non-excluded sky regions.
<U+F053> <U+F03D> <U+03C9>morning
max <U+F02B> <U+03C9>afternoon
max
sky in
1: overcast 10: almost clear
Figs. 7, 8
pmax (%) 38.04 77.25
solstice equinox solstice equinox
equal maximal equal maximal equal maximal equal maximal
analyzer
intensity contrast intensity contrast intensity contrast intensity contrast
(task 1) (task 2) (task 1) (task 2) (task 1) (task 2) (task 1) (task 2)
calcite 1 -2 -6 -2 -5 -3 -1 0 -1
calcite 2 -4 -5 -4 -4 -2 -2 -1 -1
calcite 3 -5 -4 -4 -3 -1 -3 -1 1
calcite 4 -6 -3 -5 -2 -1 -2 -1 -1
Reviewer 1 wrote: 4. Can you clarify figure 9a? Are these photos taken with a
polariser or not?
Answer: These sky photos were taken without a (linear) polarizer. In the revised captions
for Figs. 6 and 7 we wrote:
”(a) 180° field-of-view colour picture of the sky photographed under different weather
conditions without a polarizer.”
Point-by-Point Response to the Comments of Reviewer 2
Many thanks for the constructive and positive comments of Referee 2. Our manuscript was
revised on the basis of the comments of two Reviewers. In our revised manuscript all
relevant changes suggested by Reviewer 1 and Reviewer 2 and required by the Editor are
marked in blue, violet and green, respectively. Here we give our detailed response to the
points of Reviewer 2.
Reviewer 2 wrote: The editor might however feel that the paper would benefit from
greater clarity and brevity, for the 53 rather wordy pages seem excessive for such a
paper and the key conclusions are somewhat disguised amongst the mass of
experimental and numerical detail. It should be possible, without any loss of
information, to halve the length of the paper, and the result would almost certainly
be more readable. The abstract and conclusion could represent more obviously (and
quantitatively) the conclusion that navigation to a given angular accuracy can be
achieved in skies characterized by a given degree of polarization. Many of the
numerical details, which currently are described in the main text, would be more
clearly, concisely and usefully summarized as tables or graphs, and/or appendices;
and some of the tables might be better shown graphically. Some of the experimental
descriptions are a little scrambled, and could be improved by rearranging into a
different order.
Answer: As suggested, we shortened the main manuscript by (i) moving Supplementary
Result S1 and Supplementary Figures S1 and S2 into the Supporting Material, and (ii)
deleting repetious sentences from the Discussion. Until Reviewer 2 does not inform us
explicitly which redundant sentences/parts/details should be deleted or moved into the
Supporting Material, we cannot shorten further our manuscript. In our opinion, to halve the
length of our paper would be impossible without any loss of information. Referee 2 should
be more explicite in giving further instructions how the length of our revised manuscript
could be reduced futher.
The use of Appendices could not reduce the length, because these Appendices belong also
to the main paper, rather than to the Supporting Material.
As suggested, the revised Abstract and Conclusions contain more quantitative data.
Reviewer 2 wrote: While it would not change the conclusions of the paper, I also
felt that the presentation of the experimental results could be more conventionally
expressed by reference to means and variances/standard deviations and quadrature
sums, rather than to ranges, magnitudes and linear sums. In particular: a range is
entirely determined by the outlying points; and the lower value of the magnitude (|x|)
is essentially meaningless. It would be helpful to distinguish more clearly between
the purely experimental results, and those (eg navigational accuracy) that have been
derived theoretically from them. A few missing, misplaced or unclear definitions and
experimental details should also be added.
Answer: Our present manuscript is a part of a paper series about the measurement of the
error functions of the three main steps of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation. In our earlier
papers we used the sum of the mean µ and standard deviation <U+F073> of errors, rather than
<U+F06D> 2 <U+F02B> <U+F073> 2 . In order to be consequent and our earlier and present results can be compared
with each other, in our revised manuscript we kept the usage of µ + <U+F073> instead of
<U+F06D>2 <U+F02B><U+F073> 2 .
Reviewer 2 wrote: It would be kind to mention somewhere in the abstract and main
text what sort of navigational accuracy the authors conclude to be possible. In
evaluating this, the current conclusions regarding the adequacy of these methods are
based upon rather subjective assumptions of the navigational accuracy required. 10
deg is probably comparable with the errors from tide, waves, wind/leeway and
helming errors. Furthermore, a systematic error such as the diurnal variation would
be quickly learned and compensated.
Answer: Both in the Abstract and Conclusions we added sentences about the net
navigational accuracy we concluded to be possible (see below).
Reviewer 2 wrote: Abstract - the phrasing leaves the reader unclear as to the
meaning of p+ which, together with p*, should be clearly defined at the beginning of
the main text
Answer: As suggested by Referee 1, in the revised Abstract, p+ was replaced by pcrit. In the
Abstract, the meaning of p* and pcrit are clearly defined:
”From the obtained error functions e(p), the thresholds p* above which the first step can
still function (i.e. when the intensity change seen through the rotating analyzer can be
sensed) were derived. ... For higher p (> pcrit) of incident light the adjustment errors of
calcite are larger than those of the dichroic cordierite (pcrit = 20 %) and tourmaline (pcrit = 45
%), while for lower p (< pcrit) calcite usually has lower adjustment errors than dichroic
sunstones.”
18
Furthermore, at its first appearance in the main text (in subsection 2.2. Tasks of Test
Persons in the Experiments), the meaning of p* is also clearly defined:
”One of our goals was to determine the lowest p* value at which the test persons can yet
detect the maxima and minima of the sinusoidally changing intensity of light transmitted
through the rotating dichroic sunstone crystals.”
Finally, the meaning of p+ is also defined at its first and only appearance (in the
caption for Supplementary Figure S1):
”Calcite crystals with different contaminations have a threshold p+ of the degree of
polarization, under which (p < p+) no equal intensity of the two light spots can be
detected.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: Abstract - a numerical result should be given - ie the
navigational accuracy possible in given conditions.
Answer: As required, to the revised Abstract and Conclusions we added:
Abstract:
”According to our expermiments, under clear skies, using calcite or cordierite or
tourmaline sunstones, Viking sailors could navigate with net orientation errors Smax =
–3°. Under overcast conditions, their net navigation error depends on the sunstone
type: Smax(calcite) = –6°, Smax(cordierite) = –10° and Smax(tourmaline) = –17°.”
Conclusions:
”(10) The net navigation error S was between <U+F02D>1° and 0° for almost clear skies and
between <U+F02D>17° and <U+F02D>10° for totally overcast skies, where S = 0° means the
geographical northern direction. Under clear meteorological conditions, using calcite
or cordierite or tourmaline sunstones, Viking sailors could navigate with net
orientation errors Smax = –3°. Under overcast conditions, the net navigation error
depends on the sunstone type: Smax(calcite) = –6°, Smax(cordierite) = –10° and
Smax(tourmaline) = –17°. Thus, our results do not support the frequently occurring
speculation that the Viking navigators could use sunstones even under foggy or
overcast conditions. Our findings can, however, confirm that in situations when the
zenith is clear (not covered by fog or clouds), the first step of sky-polarimetric
Viking navigation can be accurate enough to keep the sailing direction, if the other
two steps are errorless.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: Abstract - description of the adjustment errors and polarization
p+ values could be omitted from the abstract.
Answer: In the revised Abstract, p+ was replaced by pcrit (see above). However, the short
definition of the meaning of p* was kept, otherwise the Abstract alone cannot be clearly
understood:
”From the obtained error functions e(p), the thresholds p* above which the first step can
still function (i.e. when the intensity change seen through the rotating analyzer can be
sensed) were derived.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p4 line 26 - this paragraph describes separately two very similar
papers by Ramskou, which could be more succinctly and clearly described together.
Answer: This paragraph was shortened as follows:
”The identity of Viking sunstones is strongly debated. Ramskou [18, 21] suggested that the
Viking sunstones described in the old sagas could have been dichroic cordierite, andalusite
and tourmaline or birefringent calcite (Iceland spar) crystals that could serve as linear
polarization analyzers. These crystals can be found on the beaches of Norway and Iceland
where the Vikings lived. These hypotheses have been frequently cited [19,22-33]. A calcite
crystal was found in a shipwreck at Alderney, which raised the possibility that such crystals
were used for navigational purposes even in the 16th century [34]. If one side of the calcite
is covered so that only one narrow slot or spot remains uncovered, the optical image
doubles on the opposite side due to birefringence (see Figs. 2-4 in [20,35,36]). The
directions of polarization of the two neighboring slots/spots are perpendicular to each
other.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p6 section 2.1 - this long section would be improved by
describing first the general arrangement, and then the specific details of experiments
1 and 2. The optical arrangement would be more clearly described as a fixed number
of diffusing screens with a range of different polarizer positions (rather than 'number
of depolarizers'). Many of the less important details could be relegated to an
appendix.
Answer: In our revised manuscript, in subsection 2.1.1. Experiment 1, first the general
arrangement is described. In subsection 2.1.2. Experiment 2, it is clearly written that:
”The experimental setup and procedure were the same as used in experiment 1.”
Then, only such details are described which are specific to experiment 2. Our optical
arrangement is clearly described, and Figure 1d shows the degree of linear
polarization p of light illuminating the analyzers (cordierite and tourmaline) as a
function of the number N of depolarizers between the polarizing dial and the
analyzers measured by imaging polarimetry in the red (650 nm), green (550 nm) and
blue (450 nm) parts of the spectrum.
We could not decide which details of the description of our experimental setup are
less important. Thus, we did not move any details into an Appendix. If Reviewer 2
requires such an appendix, he should explicitly give us which sentences should be
removed from the main text into the appendix.
Reviewer 2 wrote: p6 section 2.1 - it is apparent only from the acknowledgements
that the experimental groups were drawn from an overall number of 11 test subjects.
I doubt whether it matters that there was therefore both overlap and difference
between the different groups, but this should nonetheless be made clear.
Answer: From the first sentence of subsections 2.1.1. Experiment 1, and 2.1.2. Experiment
2, it is clear that experiments 1 and 2 were conducted with 10 and 11 male test persons,
respectively:
”Experiment 1 was conducted with 10 male test persons ...”
”Experiment 2 was performed with four different calcite crystals as sunstones, and 11 male
test persons (aging between 22 and 65 years) were involved.”
Thus, the numbers of test persons involved are given not only in the Acknowledgements.
Furthermore, in the revised manuscript we wrote:
”Apart from two, these persons were the same as in experiment 1.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p9 line 49 - the p values are quoted to an improbable level of
precision. This is also the case elsewhere in the paper, where other data also suffer
similarly.
Answer: As suggested, the measured or calculated p- and other values are given with less
precision throughout the revised manuscript.
Reviewer 2 wrote: p9 line 53 - the phrasing could indicate more clearly that the
masking was achieved during data processing, rather than physically in the
experiment. Perhaps 'excluded' would be better than 'masked'. The authors might
explain why the exclusion of p>90% was considered appropriate, given that figure 3
shows the angle judgement to be insensitive to the degree of polarization at such
levels.
Answer: The criticized sentences were changed as follows:
”Furthermore, for the North error determination, we excluded sky regions with p < 5
% (being under the sensitivity threshold of the human eye to distinguish intensity
changes produced by rotating analyzers according to the results of our present
experiment, Table 1, Figs. 2 and 3) from computation (this exclusion was achieved
during data processing, rather than physically in the experiment). Degree of
polarization values p > 90 % can be induced by motional artefacts [39] caused by
moving clouds or objects if the polarization pictures necessary for imaging
polarimetry are taken sequentially, rather than simultaneously. Since p > 90 % values
normally do not occur in real skies, we excluded also these very high p-values during
data processing. Consequently, in all the studied cases, the fitted hyperbolic
functions represented well the error function e(p) for 5 % < p < 90 %.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p10 line 6 - the reference to motional artefacts came as a bit of a
surprise, and could do with some expansion.
Answer: The occurrence of motion arteacts in sequential polarimetry is a well-known
phenomenon. In the revised sentence we gave the reference [39], in which this technical
problem of data processing is discussed in detail. In our otherwise long manuscript there is
no space for further description of this marginal issue:
”Degree of polarization values p > 90 % can be induced by motional artefacts [39] caused by
moving clouds or objects if the polarization pictures necessary for imaging polarimetry are
taken sequentially, rather than simultaneously.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p12 line 31 - it would be more conventional (though not of
significance to the conclusions) to combine the mean and standard deviation in
quadrature (ie square root of the sum of the squares), so as to correspond to the
variance about zero. The linear sum given is a good indication, but not a usable
statistical parameter.
Answer: Referee 1 is right. However, our present manuscript is a part of a paper series on
the error functions of the three main steps of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation, and in our
earlier papers we used simply the sum of the mean µ and standard deviation <U+F073> of errors,
rather than <U+F06D> 2 <U+F02B> <U+F073> 2 . In order to be consequent and our earlier and present results can
be compared with each other, in our revised manuscript we kept the usage of µ + <U+F073> instead
of <U+F06D>2 <U+F02B><U+F073> 2 .
Reviewer 2 wrote: p12 line 45 - the value of 22.5deg assumes no systematic error.
With a systematic error, the mean could exceed 22.5deg but the data still have a
small variance.
Answer: As suggested, this paragraph was revised in the following way:
”When in task 1 (equal intensity) the degree of polarization p of incident light was so low (p
< p+) that no equal intensity angle occurred, we assumed that the test person rotated an
ideal calcite (without contaminations) randomly with no systematic error, which could
result in an error between 0° and 45°. Considering a uniform distribution and no systematic
error, the expected error value is 22.5°. Thus, e(p<p+) = 22.5°, while for p > p+ the error
function e(p) was calculated according to the hyperbolic fit. With a systematic error, the
mean could exceed 22.5°.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p17 line 6 - it would be helpful to remind the reader of the total
number of cases (100) of which n is the fraction. This whole section would be better
much earlier in the paper.
Answer: As suggested by Reviewer 2 below, in Table 1 we used fraction f instead of number
of cases. The criticized paragraph was rewritten accordingly:
”Table 1 contains the fraction f of the total number of cases (n = 100) when the test persons
could not sense intensity changes through the rotating cordierite and tourmaline as
functions of the number N of depolarizers (between the polarizing dial and the analyzers)
and the degree of polarization p (%) of transmitted light in the green (550 nm) part of the
spectrum in which the human eye is the most sensitive. In fraction f = 0.1 (cordierite) and f
= 0.2 (tourmaline) the test persons lost the signal (i.e. could not detect the intensity
variations) if the number of depolarizers was N = 9. However, in fraction f = 0.03 (cordierite)
and f = 0.02 (tourmaline) no signal was detected already at N = 7 (pgreen = 20.6 %). With
increasing N, more and more test persons in increasing fraction f could not see the signal:
for N = 9, 11 and 12 (pgreen = 11.4 %), the fraction f in which the signal was lost using
tourmaline (f = 0.20, 0.58, 0.64) was approximately twice as many as when cordierite (f =
0.10, 0.31, 0.39) was used (Table 1).”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p19 line 8 - it would be kind to mention that the surprising result
about the effect of polishing (if true) is addressed later in the paper.
Answer: As suggested, here we added the following:
”However, surprisingly, calcite 3 with polished surfaces was slightly less accurate than the
unpolished calcite 2 (Table 4). This unexpected effect of polishing is addressed later in the
Discussion.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p19 - the error functions listed here, and some of the preceding
details, would be more clearly summarized in a table as the parameters of a general
formula. The use of percentages makes unclear whether a 5% polarization
corresponds in the expressions given to a value for p of 0.05 or 5. It might be clearer
to avoid reference to percentages throughout the paper. There is no discussion of the
significance (or otherwise) of the variation in fit parameters between different calcite
crystals, and no indication of their uncertainties. Much of this information might be
better relegated to an appendix.
Answer: As suggested, in our revised manuscript, the numerical values of all error functions
e(p) are summarized in the new Table 2.
In equation (3), we gave that in this mathematical formula 0 = p = 1. Howver, we kept % for
the numerical values of the degree of polarization p throughout the manuscript, since we
used the same % in our earlier papers dealing with sky-polarimetric Viking navigation.
In Supplementary Table S1 we summerized the numerical values of the standard
deviations for fitting parameters of the error functions:
Supplementary Table S1: Numerical values of the standard deviations <U+0394>a, <U+0394>b and <U+0394>c of the
o
1
fitting parameters a, b and c for the error function e(p)<U+F03D> <U+F02B> c
a <U+F0D7>p <U+F02B> b with pmin < p < pmax
obtained for the adjustment of cordierite, tourmaline and four calcite sunstone crystals.
sunstone crystal ±<U+0394>a ±<U+0394>b ±<U+0394>c pmin pmax
cordierite 0.000918 0.0048 0.001o 0.050 0.900
tourmaline 0.000686 0.00351 0.0173o 0.050 0.900
calcite 1
0.000044 0.0061 0.1329o 0.369 0.900
(equal intensity: task 1)
calcite 1
0.00052 0.00198 0.0378o 0.050 0.900
(maximal contrast: task 2)
calcite 2
0.0066 0.0046 0.1821o 0.071 0.900
(equal intensity: task 1)
calcite 2
0.000394 0.00206 0.1826o 0.050 0.900
(maximal contrast: task 2)
calcite 3
0.00154 0.00834 0.7082o 0.050 0.900
(equal intensity: task 1)
calcite 3
0.00125 0.00684 0.5455o 0.050 0.900
(maximal contrast: task 2)
calcite 4
0.000966 0.00438 0.1532o 0.050 0.900
(equal intensity: task 1)
calcite 4
0.000178 0.00676 0.3144o 0.050 0.900
(maximal contrast: task 2)
Reviewer 2 wrote: p20 section 3.2.2 - this paragraph is one of many that could be
more concisely and usefully reduced to a few words of text and a table of values,
which any interested reader would currently have to compile for him/herself.
Answer: As suggested, this paragraph was reduced as follows:
”3.2.2. Degree of Polarization Thresholds of Intensity Change Perception in Calcite
The maximal contrast adjustment method (task 2) was more comfortable for the test
persons (Supplementary Result S1), and thus, a navigator could use it more confidently. In
35 % of all the 2200 measurements, in task 2 the degree of polarization below which
intensity changes could not be detected between the light spots seen in all four calcite
sunstones was p* = 11.4 %, while for calcite 1 in task 1 (equal intensity adjustment) it was
p* = 20.6 %. On the other hand, in 4 % of all the 2200 measurements, p* < 10 % for all four
calcites in both tasks with the exception of calcite 1 in task 1 where p* = 20.6 %.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p21 line 11 - "close to zero" could perhaps be quantified.
Answer: This was quantified as follows:
Results:
”At higher pave and pmax, the half bandwidth d<U+F077> of North errors is usually lower and the daily
net error S is close to zero (–7o < S < +6o) in all cases.”
Discussion:
”As in the most cases the deviations of the North error <U+F077>max from zero were very similar in
the morning and the afternoon, and differed only in the sign, their sum <U+F053> was always close
to zero (–7o < S < +6o).”
Reviewer 2 wrote: p21 line 40 - in the absence of error bars for the precision and
reproducibility of the data of Table 4, this seems a bold conclusion. The variance
ranges are large, and determined by the outlying cases. What were the mean
variances? The average of the range extremes for calcites 2 and 3 for task 1 were
(42, 41), (32 and 31) - ie a factor of 4/3. Is this true of the mean variances? Is it
significant?
Answer: The criticized sentence (Since the surface of calcite 3 was polished, these
results indicate that polishing the sunstone can change the adjustment error, and thus
the accuracy of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation.) was deleted from here.
However, the effect of sunstone polishing is addressed in the Discussion as follows:
”From the summed absolute values of mean errors and the results of North determination,
comparing calcite 2 (unpolished) and calcite 3 (polished), we can see that the polished
calcite had worse results. At first, this might be surprising. As polishing makes the crystal
more transparent, it can be assumed to be easier to detect the intensity differences
between the two light spots. However, due to the increased transparency caused by the
surface polishing, the internal crystal defects can become more visible, that can confuse
and mislead the navigator and result in adjusting the sunstone to a wrong orientation. On
the other hand, using a calcite with dim surfaces, the navigator can see the average
intensity of the polarized light passing through the crystal, while the local contaminations
are blurred. Calcite crystals found in the nature are always contaminated, full of inner and
superficial scratches, impurities and defects. Hence, according to our present result, it is
advisable not to polish the surface of calcite sunstones.”.
Reviewer 2 wrote: p24 line 22 - while tangential to the main thrust of the paper, this
is an interesting finding. I don't understand the explanation offered, so perhaps this
could be more clearly articulated. The conclusion about the relative 'comfort' of the
two methods seems unjustified.
Answer: We rewrote the critized part of the Discussion as follows:
”The test persons marked less cases when they did not see any intensity changes during
rotating the calcite crystals for the maximal contrast adjustment (task 2) than for the equal
intensity adjustment (task 1). As we used the same settings in the two adjustment tasks,
the results should have been similar and independent of the calcite contamination. We
assume that the test persons in task 1 (equal intensity adjustment) may also have marked
those cases when they could not adjust the crystal into the equal intensity angle (since
there was no such angle due to calcite contamination). Thus, false markings coming from
the misinterpretation of the task (signalling the cases where no intensity difference can be
detected) cannot be exluded. This could not occur when the maximal contrast orientation
of calcite had to be found. Hence, we regard the maximal contrast adjustment as a more
comfortable method for navigation, because misinterpretations cannot occur here and we
obtained 240 less markings than in equal contrast adjustment.”
Reviewer 2 wrote: Discussion - this largely repeats earlier material; other parts
might sit more happily in earlier sections.
Answer: We tried to shorted and revise the Discussion. Which parts should be moved to
earlier sections? Referee 2 should be more explicit.
Reviewer 2 wrote: table 1 - although nmax is given in the caption, it is not obvious at
first sight. Could the data not be presented as fractions (eg 0.64 instead of 64)?
Answer: As suggested Table 1 was revised as follows:
Table 1: Fraction f of the total number of cases (n = 100) when the test persons could not
sense intensity changes seen through the rotating dichroic cordierite and tourmaline as
functions of the number N of depolarizers (between the polarizing dial and the analyers)
and the degree of linear polarization p (%) of transmitted light in the green (550 nm) part of
the spectrum in which the human eye is the most sensitive. Cases with N = 6, 8 and 10 do
not occur, because in our experiment we used only 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11 and 12
depolarizers between the polarizing dial and the analyers.
number N of depolarizers 0<U+F02D>5 7 9 11 12
pgreen (%) 99.3 <U+F02D> 36.9 20.6 11.4 7.1 5.5
f (cordierite) 0 0.03 0.10 0.31 0.39
f (tourmaline) 0 0.02 0.20 0.58 0.64
And the corresponding subsection 3.1.2. of the Results was rewritten accordingly:
”Table 1 contains the fraction f of the total number of cases (n = 100) when the test
persons could not sense intensity changes through the rotating cordierite and
tourmaline as functions of the number N of depolarizers (between the polarizing dial
and the analyzers) and the degree of polarization p (%) of transmitted light in the
green (550 nm) part of the spectrum in which the human eye is the most sensitive. In
fraction f = 0.1 (cordierite) and f = 0.2 (tourmaline) the test persons lost the signal
(i.e. could not detect the intensity variations) if the number of depolarizers was N =
9. However, in fraction f = 0.03 (cordierite) and f = 0.02 (tourmaline) no signal was
detected already at N = 7 (pgreen = 20.6 %). With increasing N, more and more test
persons in increasing fraction f could not see the signal: for N = 9, 11 and 12 (pgreen =
11.4 %), the fraction f in which the signal was lost using tourmaline (f = 0.20, 0.58,
0.64) was approximately twice as many as when cordierite (f = 0.10, 0.31, 0.39) was
used (Table 1).”
Reviewer 2 wrote: tables 2, 3 - as noted above for p12 line 31, it might be more
conventional and useful to combine the different error contributions in quadrature.
Answer: See our earlier answer about this issue.
Reviewer 2 wrote: table 4 - the lower bound of the range of |x| is of no significance
unless all values of x have the same sign, which is not stated in the article. The range
of |x| might therefore be replaced by the maximum value alone. Since even this is
determined by the outlying points, though, would it not be both more conventional
and more useful to give the mean and variance?
Answer: We replaced |<U+0394><U+03C9>North| with <U+0394><U+03C9>North in Table 5, thus the minimum and maximum
values of the ranges have significant meaning and opposite sign. Accordingly, we changed
the corresponding subsection 3.2.3. of the Results in the following way:
”Table 5 shows the range (minimum and maximum) of <U+0394><U+F077>North and d<U+03C9> of the four calcite
crystals: In task 1 (equal intensity adjustment), at solstice <U+0394><U+F077>North was slightly smaller than
at equinox, while the d<U+03C9>-values were similar in both seasons. Calcites 2 and 3 were more
accurate (having narrower ranges of <U+0394><U+F077>North) than calcites 1 and 4. In addition, calcite 1 was
the worst (possessing the wider range of <U+0394><U+F077>North and the greatest minimum of d<U+03C9>). In task 2
(maximal contrast adjustment), the ranges of <U+0394><U+F077>North for summer solstice were generally
lower than those for spring equinox, while the d<U+03C9>-values were similar. Interestingly, in task
2, calcite 3 had a wider range (minimum-maximum) of <U+0394><U+F077>North and d<U+03C9> than in task 1 (equal
intensity adjustment). For the other three calcite crystals the tendency was the opposite:
the boundary values were slightly lower and the ranges were narrower in task 2 compared
to task 1.”
We also replaced subsection 3.1.3. of the Results for cordierite and tourmaline:
”(i) The half bandwidth <U+F064><U+F077> of <U+F077>max has a decreasing tendency with increasing pave
and pmax for both dichroic cordierite and tourmaline crystals. The sum
<U+F053> <U+F03D> <U+03C9> max <U+F02B><U+03C9> afternoon
ng
maxof morning and afternoon North errors are around zero in most of
the cases. Furthermore, both the North errors <U+F077>max and their half bandwidths <U+F064><U+F077> at the
summer solstice (<U+F077>max = -39o<U+F02D>24o, <U+F064><U+F077> = 14o<U+F02D>90o) have practically the same values as those at
the spring equinox (<U+F077>max = -38o<U+F02D>27o, <U+F064><U+F077> = 14o<U+F02D>90o).
(ii) The ranges of North errors and their half bandwidths were narrower for the
cordierite (<U+F077>max = -30o<U+F02D>27o, <U+F064><U+F077> = 14o<U+F02D>75o) than for the tourmaline (<U+F077>max = -39o<U+F02D>26o, <U+F064><U+F077> =
14o<U+F02D>90o).”
Appendix B
Dear Editorial Office of Royal Society Open Science
and
Matthew Allinson (Editorial Coordinator)
and
Miles Padgett (Subject Editor),
thank you for your letter of 3 December 2015 in which you sent me the comments of
Referee 2 about our revised manuscript RSOS-150406.R1 entitled
Adjustment errors of sunstones in the first step of sky-polarimetric Viking navigation:
Studies with dichroic cordierite/tourmaline and birefringent calcite crystals
by Dénes Száz, Alexandra Farkas, Miklós Blahó, András Barta, Ádám Egri, Balázs Kretzer,
Tibor Hegedüs, Zoltán Jäger and Gábor Horváth
Our paper was slightly revised on the basis of the short comment of Reviewer 2. We gave a
detailed response to this new comment of Reviewer 2.
I would like to submit our 2nd revised paper to the Royal Society Open Science.
Sincerely yours: Gábor Horváth (corresponding author)
Dr. Gábor Horváth
Environmental Optics Laboratory,
Department of Biological Physics,
Physical Institute,
Eötvös University,
H-1117 Budapest, Pázmány sétány 1, Hungary
e-mail: gh@arago.elte.hu
homepage: http://arago.elte.hu
Point-by-Point Response to the Comments of Reviewer 2
Many thanks for the new comments of Referee 2. Our manuscript was revised on the basis
of these comments. Here we give our response to the new points of Reviewer 2.
Reviewer 2 wrote: The authors have responded to most of the comments made by
the two reviewers. However, the paper is still exceptionally long for its content. I do
not propose to rewrite it myself. I therefore leave it to the editor to decide whether
the current length is acceptable.
Answer: The Editor did not suggest further shortening of our revised paper, and
Reviewer 2 did not give us instructions how the length of our revised manuscript
could be reduced futher. Note that our paper has originally been submitted as a two-
part manuscript presenting the results of two psychophysical experiment series with
dichroic (cordierite and tourmaline) and birefringent (calcite) sunstone crystals. The
Editor asked us to merge these two manuscripts. This is the reason for the length of
our pape, which we cannot shorten without further instructions to be obtained from
the Reviewers and/or the Editors.
Reviewer 2 wrote: The authors state in a couple of places that they have rejected
improvements for consistency with earlier publications. I consider this mistaken. The
combination of uncertainties in a conventional and statistically meaningful fashion
would make the paper more intelligible and useful. A footnote could explain the
difference from previous presentations. Similarly, if more clarity would result by
avoiding the use of percentages, previous use does not justify their retention.
Answer: In the definition of the measured error functions there is no difference from
our previous presentations in our earlier papers. Thus, a footnote would be
unnecessary, which could explain the difference from previous presentations.
As mentioned in our earlier response, our present paper is a part of a series about the
measurement of the error functions of the three main steps of sky-polarimetric
Viking navigation. In our earlier papers we used the sum of the mean µ and standard
deviation <U+F073> of errors, rather than <U+F06D> 2 <U+F02B> <U+F073> 2 . In order to be consequent and our
earlier and present results can be compared with each other, in our revised
manuscript we kept the usage of µ + <U+F073> instead of <U+F06D>2 <U+F02B><U+F073> 2 .
In her/his earlier report, Reviewer 2 has admitted that this would not change the
conclusions of the paper. Furthrmore, it would be more conventional (though not of
significance to the conclusions) to combine the mean and standard deviation in
quadrature (ie square root of the sum of the squares), so as to correspond to the
variance about zero. The linear sum given is a good indication, but not a usable
statistical parameter.
On the other hand, in equation (3), we gave that in this mathematical formula 0 = p = 1.
However, we kept % for the numerical values of the degree of polarization p throughout
the manuscript, since we used the same % in our earlier papers dealing with sky-
polarimetric Viking navigation.
Note that in the literature the value of the degree of polarization is conventionally
given either in % (ranging from 0 to 100 %), or in values between 0 and 1. It is the
privilege of the authors which option is chosen in a given publication.
Reviewer 2 wrote: The authors do not seem to have addressed my point about their
subjective assessment of the navigational accuracy required. To conclude that "our
results do not support the frequently occurring speculation that the Viking
navigators could use sunstones even under foggy or overcast conditions" requires
some assumptions about how well the Vikings needed to know their orientation (and
how well they might have corrected for systematic errors). As a sailor who would do
well to maintain a track to within 10 deg after wind and tide, I would be more
optimistic. The point though is that, whether or not the conclusion is true, it is
unjustified.
Answer: Referee 2 is right, thus from the Conclusions of our second revised paper
we deleted the following criticized, unjustified statement: ”Thus, our results do not
support the frequently occurring speculation that the Viking navigators could use
sunstones even under foggy or overcast conditions.”
Society Open
