Using Fisher information to assess stability in the
performance of public transportation systems
Nasir Ahmad, Sybil Derrible and Heriberto Cabezas
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160920.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160920
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 March 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 March 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160920.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This article applies Fisher Information to the study of transportation systems across the United
States. I was initially very intrigued by the approach and its potential, but ultimately had trouble
figuring out exactly what benefits this method brings over other methods of analyzing transit
systems.
My main critique of the article, therefore, is that the utility from a transportation planning
perspective is poorly motivated. How does this method compare or improve upon other more
commonly used metrics? What is the benefit of this method as compared to other trend clustering
methods (i.e. latent curve modeling) for analyzing time series data? I understand that it can be
used for multiple variables, but the limitation I see is that we can't discern which variable is
causing the change? Is it a supply or demand problem?
Overall, I didn't find that the method revealed anything unknown or extraordinary about US
transit system. Rather, it confirmed in a very descriptive manner rather obvious trends about
these systems (such as, ridership changes follow the opening of a new light rail line).
The authors really need to convey more convincingly that something novel was uncovered about
transit systems that could not have been detected with other, previously used metrics.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Valerio De Martinis)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this paper, the authors propose a method to assess the overall stability and order of public
transit systems over time using elements of Information Theory and adopting Fisher Information
(FI) concepts. Results shown on a very large dataset identifies eight different patterns in the
calculation of FI and assesses an overall stable state of public transport systems or, in some cases,
a search towards this stable state.
3
The work is overall well written and well organized. Only a few comments from my side to be
considered as minor reviews.
• The introduction is very clear, however, it must be improved clarifying the main
innovative contributions to the field (a couple of sentences or a small paragraph at the end of
section 1 would be enough).
• At the end of the literature review, the research gap to fill/the alternative method you
proposed together with possible benefits (e.g. accuracy, computation speed, easy
implementation) should be clearly stated, in order to position your paper in the current literature.
Since you already published something related to FI, it would be also desirable to add a couple of
sentences on the advances of your research in the proposed paper starting from reference [13].
• The link https://github.com/csunlab/fisher-information , could it be added as a
reference? Since it is absolutely that. But you can check it during the editorial process for
publication.
• My opinion is that section 3 (very short and still part of the “background” needed for
readers) can be merged with section 2, with a small introduction to the Sustainable Regimes
Hypothesis.
• In the discussion section, mainly trends descriptions are reported. I would add also some
specific explanations. Why rail over the other transport modes? why the jump-drop of NY in
2004-09? What’s behind that?
• Another important issue to consider is the role of the latest technology. Probably the
discussion on autonomous vehicles is not yet influencing PTS dynamics, since very few
applications around the world are available (e.g. Autonomous Post bus in Sion, Switzerland).
It would be interesting to have also some consideration on this aspect, your expectation, etc.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160920)
09-Mar-2017
Dear Mr Ahmad
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160920 entitled
"Assessing Performance Stability in Public Transportation Systems using Fisher Information" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
4
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160920
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Mar-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
The paper has received positive reviews with suggestions for revisions. Please undertake those
revisions. However, the first reviewer has expressed concern that the findings related to
transportation engineering are not novel. Since that kind of novelty and practical value are not
requirements for RSOS papers, you do not need to address those concerns. However, I still
encourage you to add novel engineering content if you can (since it will greatly increase the
interest in your work and its value).
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This article applies Fisher Information to the study of transportation systems across the United
States. I was initially very intrigued by the approach and its potential, but ultimately had trouble
figuring out exactly what benefits this method brings over other methods of analyzing transit
systems.
My main critique of the article, therefore, is that the utility from a transportation planning
perspective is poorly motivated. How does this method compare or improve upon other more
commonly used metrics? What is the benefit of this method as compared to other trend clustering
methods (i.e. latent curve modeling) for analyzing time series data? I understand that it can be
used for multiple variables, but the limitation I see is that we can't discern which variable is
causing the change? Is it a supply or demand problem?
Overall, I didn't find that the method revealed anything unknown or extraordinary about US
transit system. Rather, it confirmed in a very descriptive manner rather obvious trends about
these systems (such as, ridership changes follow the opening of a new light rail line).
The authors really need to convey more convincingly that something novel was uncovered about
transit systems that could not have been detected with other, previously used metrics.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In this paper, the authors propose a method to assess the overall stability and order of public
transit systems over time using elements of Information Theory and adopting Fisher Information
(FI) concepts. Results shown on a very large dataset identifies eight different patterns in the
calculation of FI and assesses an overall stable state of public transport systems or, in some cases,
a search towards this stable state.
The work is overall well written and well organized. Only a few comments from my side to be
considered as minor reviews.
• The introduction is very clear, however, it must be improved clarifying the main
innovative contributions to the field (a couple of sentences or a small paragraph at the end of
section 1 would be enough).
• At the end of the literature review, the research gap to fill/the alternative method you
proposed together with possible benefits (e.g. accuracy, computation speed, easy
implementation) should be clearly stated, in order to position your paper in the current literature.
Since you already published something related to FI, it would be also desirable to add a couple of
sentences on the advances of your research in the proposed paper starting from reference [13].
• The link https://github.com/csunlab/fisher-information , could it be added as a
reference? Since it is absolutely that. But you can check it during the editorial process for
publication.
• My opinion is that section 3 (very short and still part of the “background” needed for
readers) can be merged with section 2, with a small introduction to the Sustainable Regimes
Hypothesis.
• In the discussion section, mainly trends descriptions are reported. I would add also some
specific explanations. Why rail over the other transport modes? why the jump-drop of NY in
2004-09? What’s behind that?
• Another important issue to consider is the role of the latest technology. Probably the
discussion on autonomous vehicles is not yet influencing PTS dynamics, since very few
applications around the world are available (e.g. Autonomous Post bus in Sion, Switzerland).
It would be interesting to have also some consideration on this aspect, your expectation, etc.
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160920)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160920.R1)
28-Mar-2017
Dear Mr Ahmad,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Assessing Performance Stability in
Public Transportation Systems using Fisher Information" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
ar Editor,
have attached the revised manuscript, “Assessing Performance Stability in Public
nsportation Systems using Fisher Information” (RSOS-160920). The reviewers’ comments
e very helpful in revising the manuscript and our responses are summarized below.
reover, we updated the manuscript with the latest datasets available, and the time period
died now extends to 2016.
viewer 1
My main critique of the article, therefore, is that the utility from a transportation
nning perspective is poorly motivated.
nk you for highlighting this issue. We see three notable utilities of using Fisher Information
) for transit planners and we added a paragraph in the introduction. We also reiterated the
efits towards the end of the discussion.
How does this method compare or improve upon other more commonly used metrics?
at is the benefit of this method as compared to other trend clustering methods (i.e.
nt curve modeling) for analyzing time series data? I understand that it can be used for
ltiple variables, but the limitation I see is that we can't discern which variable is causing
change? Is it a supply or demand problem?
provides a means to monitor system dynamics by assessing changes in each individual
iable. It can therefore be used to capture system-wide dynamics, but it cannot be used as a
dictive model. As the reviewer mentions, the prime benefit of this method over others is its
ity to handle multiple variables. As the computed FI contains information about all variables
er than a specific one, it can certainly be used as an input for any trend clustering methods.
also revised the introduction accordingly but we have not discussed other clustering methods
his point not to confuse readers who are not familiar with advanced clustering methods. We
happy to change this if the reviwer feels strongly about it.
ddition, we completely agree about the incapacity of FI to discern which variable is causing
change, and we added text on this point in the manuscript in section 2.2.
Overall, I didn't find that the method revealed anything unknown or extraordinary
ut US transit system. Rather, it confirmed in a very descriptive manner rather obvious
nds about these systems (such as, ridership changes follow the opening of a new light rail
).
ime shifts capture substantial changes in any system. For public transportation systems
S), the introduction or termination on any mode is an example of a major change, and but
se changes are obvious and an advanced method like FI is not required to capture them.
vertheless, we capture a regime shift in the Sacramento rail system, where no transit mode
introduced or terminated in the 2002-2016 time period studied. To highlight this benefit, we
laced San-Diego with Sacramento in Figures 1, 2, and 4. Overall, we find regime shifts for
y 254 PTS, out of 1146 different PTS. We also find decreasing FI patterns for 308 PTS and
reasing FI patterns for 136 PTS. These results are interesting and non-trivial. After all, a
reasing FI trend can be alarming and capturing it ahead of time may help develop and make
ctive policies before any regime shifts. We added text throughout the text to better convey
general benefits of using FI.
viewer 2
he introduction is very clear, however, it must be improved clarifying the main
ovative contributions to the field (a couple of sentences or a small paragraph at the end
ection 1 would be enough)
nk you. We revised the introduction according to your suggestion and added a paragraph
wing the relevance of the work to transit planners. We also added information about FI in
tion 2.2
t the end of the literature review, the research gap to fill/the alternative method you
posed together with possible benefits (e.g. accuracy, computation speed, easy
plementation) should be clearly stated, in order to position your paper in the current
rature. Since you already published something related to FI, it would be also desirable
dd a couple of sentences on the advances of your research in the proposed paper
rting from reference [13].
ically metrics related to ridership (e.g. unlinked passenger trips) and revenue (e.g. vehicle
enue miles) are used discretely to measure the performance of public transportation systems
S). Here, we introduce Fisher Information (FI) as a technique to combine all those
formance metrics together to get a combined performance metrics, and we use UPT and VRM
our analysis. This is a substantial contribution in itself. As per your suggestion, we revised
tion 1 and we stated this aspect more clearly.
reover, our last paper on FI was offered a detailed procedure to compute FI. We simply
lemented FI on a simple dataset to demonstrate how FI works. In contrast, here, we
lement FI on a full scale to analyze all the PTS in the US, and we are able to directly extract
rmation that can be used in practice.
he link https://github.com/csunlab/fisher-information , could it be added as a
erence? Since it is absolutely that. But you can check it during the editorial process for
blication.
added it as a reference. We also added a link to the tutorial.
My opinion is that section 3 (very short and still part of the “background” needed for
ders) can be merged with section 2, with a small introduction to the Sustainable
gimes Hypothesis.
nk you. Sections 2 and 3 were merged together.
n the discussion section, mainly trends descriptions are reported. I would add also some
cific explanations. Why rail over the other transport modes? why the jump-drop of NY
004-09? What’s behind that?
use UPT and VRM data for our analysis, we therefore do not explain why these changes
urred in the first place (the process would be much too long for the 1146 PTS). Although one
he limitations of FI is that it cannot discern which variable is causing the change, we tried to
vide as much information as possible about how FI can be used in practice; i.e., overall trends
I, eight different patterns, regime shift, etc.
nother important issue to consider is the role of the latest technology. Probably the
cussion on autonomous vehicles is not yet influencing PTS dynamics, since very few
lications around the world are available (e.g. Autonomous Post bus in Sion,
itzerland).
reed. Significant use of autonomous vehicle will definitely influence PTS dynamics, which
be captured through FI. While we may not want to highlight this aspect in the introduction
erall, we are not directly studying autonomous vehicles), we added some text in the
clusion.
Society Open
