The structure and evolution of story networks
Folgert Karsdorp and Antal van den Bosch
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160071.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160071
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 May 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 May 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160071.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The authors should include the full texts of all of their accessed stories, both from the Dutch LRR
corpus and the chain letter corpus. As it stands, there is no easy way to download this data, and
confirm the experiments.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors provide an interesting model for understanding story variation as a function of a
storytelling network. The underlying model presented in the paper is sound, particularly for the
fairy tale under consideration, namely that stories are transmitted in a network, and not in a
linear chain. The authors suggest four models of selection to explain the status of the corpus at
the last time of observation based on texts from earlier time slices. The model that best matches
the transmission of the fairy tale, namely a form of preferential attachment they label preferential
attraction with temporal attractiveness (PA-TA). This finding is interesting and worth
publication, as it confirms well-known folklore theories, particularly those of CW von Sydow (cf
"On the Spread of Tradition") and Albert Eskeröd's seminal work on "tradiiton dominants."
Similarly, it aligns with a slew of work on the dynamics oral narrative tradition. It may also be
closely related to Walter Andersson's concept of "self correction" where here it is network
dynamics that allow for temporal variation while accounting for a high degree of stability in the
tale.
In my short comments below, I highlight some of the major contributions of this piece, and
suggest ways in which the article could be made stronger. Perhaps the most glaring lack in the
paper is an appreciation of the sophisticated history of folklore theory dealing with precisely the
questions of stability and variation over time. Similarly, there is little awareness of computational
approaches to folklore that explore questions of variation (similarity and difference) over much
larger corpora (cf. Abello et al in CACM). The paper would benefit greatly with the addition of a
more robust grounding in folklore theory given the considerable scholarship.
(1) The article attempts to do too much--the study of fairy tales and chain letters are
fundamentally different. Assuming that the corpus of fairy tales is largely a corpus of orally
collected tales (given the large number, this is the presumption, although this may be incorrect--
the authors do not explain the corpus as clearly as they could), then the folktale and chain letter
corpuses differ fundamentally. Chain letters are, by the authors own admission, largely reliant
on the hand copying in multiple copies; as later technologies become available (such as the
photocopier and fax machine) rapid and consistent transmission of the chain letter can take place
(this technological shift may account for the spike in transmission noted for the 1980s).
Consequently, it is unclear that chain letters make use of any pretext other than their immediate
predecessor.
The question of the chain letter and network transmission has been addressed in classic studies
by Liben-Nowell and Kleinberg (PNAS 2008, vol. 105, no. 12. 4633-4638). While they study a
more recent internet chain letter transmission, it appears to be highly related to this article, and
their findings may help account for the pretext model that the authors discovered for chain
letters.
The reader is never quite sure as to why these two corpuses were chosen. While the article begins
with a discussion of Cinderella, the actual fairy tale in question is Little Red Riding Hood--the
transition is jarring and adds confusion rather than clarity. I would suggest starting with LRR,
perhaps situating LRR in the larger fairy tale world, and then sticking to LRR.
3
I would also suggest eliminating the Chain Letter section altogether, publishing that research as a
separate article. The focus then would be on the LRR corpus and the concept of pre-texts. At the
very least, the very verbose discussion of the chain letter corpus on p 6 could be greatly
shortened.
In the discussion of the LRR corpus, the authors should stick to their corpus. There is no clear
motivation for the discussion of a Japanese wood cut when the tales under consideration are all
Dutch.
(2) The authors should align the work on fairy tale with folklore theory. The question of how
storytellers model their stories on other pretexts is a sound one, and implicit in a great deal of
folklore scholarship going back to the Grimms. This idea finds its clearest expression in the early
folklore method of the Krohns and Aarne, resulting in both the ATU index of fairy tales, and the
earliest folkloric method, the historic-geographic method. The authors seem either unaware of
the history of the problem, or believe there is little to be gotten there. While Zipes is an excellent
scholar, unless this work is focused on literary reworkings of fairy tales (something that should
be made much clearer if that is the case), then there are many other resources that would provide
significant support for the theoretical underpinnings of the work. Recasting the
paper as a confirmation of the role of tradition dominants in shaping tradition and the impact of
network transmissions of stories would situate this paper as making a major contribution to
folklore theory. If, however, this is based on literary reworkings of the tales, then that is fine--the
supplementary information should, at the very least, include a complete listing of all the tales
considered and their sources.
A small quibble concerns the limitation of the corpus to LRR tales exclusively. The suggestion
here is that LRR tales only use LRR tales as a pretext. Almost all folklore theory suggests a
different model of transmission, where storytellers use other tales as pre-texts for aspects of their
own retellings of tales adjusting those tellings to both the context of performance, and the active
tales in their own current story repertoires (what the authors label context-based attractiveness).
This problem is obviated if the corpus consists entirely of literary versions of tales--this may
indeed be the case in this study, but it is not immediately apparent. If the latter is the case, this
should be made clear immediately--"the story concerns literary reworkings of LRR published
Dutch story collections" for example. Since these stories would essentially be context-less, it
becomes easier to focus on "content based" attractiveness.
These terms (context and content based attractiveness) appear to be discarded in favor of the
interesting frequency based attractiveness, model based attractiveness (a form of context based
attractiveness), and temporal based attractiveness. It would be preferable to simply use these
forms of attractiveness throughout.
(3) the model of similarity, while well known and easily understood (here cosine dissimilarity
between tf-idf document vectors in the corpus) it is unclear that this is the appropriate
representation of the tale. Either a decomposition of the tales by motif chains, or an extended
feature set that includes motifs, would be far more likely to capture the inter reliance between
tales than a simple normalized word frequency vector. I am not convinced that a BOW model is
the best method for determining dependence of documents.
Similarity is notoriously difficult to determine between literary texts, something of which the
authors are aware. Interesting work in developing similarity networks for folktale corpora is
discussed in Abello et al (CACM 2012) but oddly missing from the list of references here. The
network thresholding is a reasonable approach to this problem if one accepts the tf-idf + cos
similarity network model.
4
The underlying theory of network transmission is that later retellings may skip generations of
stories--whereas linear transmission decays rapidly unless written (as in the case of the chain
letters) where variation is frequently introduced through scribal error (cf the entire middle ages!),
network transmission allows for a constant reinforcing signal to help limit noise. The question
then becomes, which signal is most likely to persist? Given a persistent signal, what network
phenomena can account for its persistence?
(4) there is far too much introductory material about the various models and statistical
approaches. All of the approaches are very well known and hardly need laborious rehearsal. For
example, the discussion of BOW models of text vectors and cosine (dis)similarity on page 9 are
standard machine learning techniques and hardly need explanation. The relaxed ranking
algorithm used to bootstrap
the network is interesting but could be described in a sentence or two. It is unclear to me why we
need pseudo-code on page 10 as there is nothing unusual about this implementation.
On p 11, it is unclear to me why story and pre-text are distinguished from each other--any story
can become a pre-text to a later story, so suggesting these are two different classes confuses the
issue (and seems to suggest a bimodal network model).
On pp 11-12, the discussion of well-known network models is superfluous--these are simple
descriptions/rehearsals of well-known phenomena. Figure 3 is superfluous.
Figure 4 is interesting, but needs to be described better. There would be more room to do so if the
chain letter portion is discarded.
On p 12 the decision to use the Gini coefficient is excellent--it gets lost in a lot of the previous
chatter, and would be more prominent if that material were significantly cut.
On p. 13, there seems to be an unmotivated focus on whether the in-degree distribution is a
power-law distribution or not. The motivation for this discussion becomes apparent later; the
authors should say much earlier that a power law implies a certain type of preferential
attachment. That rearrangment would then motivate the discussion of these different models--
power law,
log normal, exponential, etc.
On p 15, the discussion of preferential attachment becomes a bit tangential to the problem at
hand.
The novelty of the paper lies in the application of these methods to a specific corpus to measure
story change over time, proposing a model that helps explain why certain variants have greater
influence than other variants--that is an important confirmation in itself of the
proposal that folklore represents traditional cultural expressive forms circulating in and across
social networks.
The observation of lopsidedness to smaller timespans is very interesting, and a finding that
should be highlighted, not buried on p. 15! Just after that, the authors reach an important
conclusion: "In other words, retellings of Red Riding Hood do display preference to select alder
versions as their pre-text(s)...stories have individual values of attraction that lessen over time."
Showing this empirically is a very important finding. Unfortunately, this is almost lost in the
middle of a paragraph.
5
On p16, the paper shifts into statistical hyperdrive, and it is not entirely clear what is happening.
The selection of a Dirichlet may make a lot of sense, but many readers (this one included) may
have to stop and think about that for a while.
(5) the final concluding paragraph suggests motivation(s) for storyteller choices, but it is not
storyteller motivation that is modeled here--rather it is the outcome of a storytelling network
process. Why storytellers choose to tell stories is not addressed; once they decide to tell a story,
the PA model helps explain why the tradition takes on the contours it does, with certain well-
known stories acting as hubs. While "retellers of Red Riding Hood can choose from a vast amount
of story versions" is true for a literary tradition where retellers have perfect access to the corpus of
previously told/recorded variants, this is only the case for a literary tradition that has been well
indexed and archived.
The final paragraph equating preferential attachment to a neutral model of cultural evolution and
biological random drift has almost nothing to do with the paper at all, and the suggestions is
probably incorrect. At the very least, it posits a super-organic model for folklore where the stories
circulate independently of the storytellers. All modern folklore theory has qualitatively and, in
more recent work, quantitatively, has shown that this is not the case. No storytellers--no stories.
Storytelling is a social process and the choice to tell stories is highly motivated. The reason
something becomes popular is the important question--once something becomes popular people
imitate it; but equating this to biological random drift undermines all the good work in this
paper.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160071)
10-May-2016
Dear Mr Karsdorp
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160071 entitled
"The Structure and Evolution of Story Networks" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
6
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160071
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-May-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
7
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Matjaz Perc):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The manuscript contains a very interesting application of network science to how stories are
retold. I have enjoyed reading the manuscript, and I am in favor of publication after a revision.
Before re-submission, please consider the following comments, some of which are also aligned
with the report of the referee.
1) I am confused by the inclusion of the chain letters. I understand this is somewhat akin to
retelling a story, but it is hardly the same. The reader gets lost quite easily in what exactly it is
the authors are trying to communicate. The discussion at the end is also very lengthy and not
everything seems to be supported by the presented evidence. In short, the authors should
carefully consider which results to retain, and please refocus on the main messages, especially in
the discussion, which, as said, is too long.
2) In the introduction, in terms of frequency-based attractiveness, recently an argument was
made that this may be behind the most frequent words and phrases of the English language too
in Evolution of the most common English words and phrases over the centuries, J. R. Soc.
Interface 9, 3323-3328 (2012). Perhaps worth a referral.
3) Figures have very short captions, but they should be able to stand on their own more. Please
improve this by stating also the main message/results in each figure with a sentence or two.
8
4) The algorithm need not be presented in this technical form since it is well-known and easy to
find elsewhere. If you insist on showing this, then please move it to an appending of suppl.
material.
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors provide an interesting model for understanding story variation as a function of a
storytelling network. The underlying model presented in the paper is sound, particularly for the
fairy tale under consideration, namely that stories are transmitted in a network, and not in a
linear chain. The authors suggest four models of selection to explain the status of the corpus at
the last time of observation based on texts from earlier time slices. The model that best matches
the transmission of the fairy tale, namely a form of preferential attachment they label preferential
attraction with temporal attractiveness (PA-TA). This finding is interesting and worth
publication, as it confirms well-known folklore theories, particularly those of CW von Sydow (cf
"On the Spread of Tradition") and Albert Eskeröd's seminal work on "tradiiton dominants."
Similarly, it aligns with a slew of work on the dynamics oral narrative tradition. It may also be
closely related to Walter Andersson's concept of "self correction" where here it is network
dynamics that allow for temporal variation while accounting for a high degree of stability in the
tale.
In my short comments below, I highlight some of the major contributions of this piece, and
suggest ways in which the article could be made stronger. Perhaps the most glaring lack in the
paper is an appreciation of the sophisticated history of folklore theory dealing with precisely the
questions of stability and variation over time. Similarly, there is little awareness of computational
approaches to folklore that explore questions of variation (similarity and difference) over much
larger corpora (cf. Abello et al in CACM). The paper would benefit greatly with the addition of a
more robust grounding in folklore theory given the considerable scholarship.
(1) The article attempts to do too much--the study of fairy tales and chain letters are
fundamentally different. Assuming that the corpus of fairy tales is largely a corpus of orally
collected tales (given the large number, this is the presumption, although this may be incorrect--
the authors do not explain the corpus as clearly as they could), then the folktale and chain letter
corpuses differ fundamentally. Chain letters are, by the authors own admission, largely reliant
on the hand copying in multiple copies; as later technologies become available (such as the
photocopier and fax machine) rapid and consistent transmission of the chain letter can take place
(this technological shift may account for the spike in transmission noted for the 1980s).
Consequently, it is unclear that chain letters make use of any pretext other than their immediate
predecessor.
The question of the chain letter and network transmission has been addressed in classic studies
by Liben-Nowell and Kleinberg (PNAS 2008, vol. 105, no. 12. 4633-4638). While they study a
more recent internet chain letter transmission, it appears to be highly related to this article, and
their findings may help account for the pretext model that the authors discovered for chain
letters.
9
The reader is never quite sure as to why these two corpuses were chosen. While the article begins
with a discussion of Cinderella, the actual fairy tale in question is Little Red Riding Hood--the
transition is jarring and adds confusion rather than clarity. I would suggest starting with LRR,
perhaps situating LRR in the larger fairy tale world, and then sticking to LRR.
I would also suggest eliminating the Chain Letter section altogether, publishing that research as a
separate article. The focus then would be on the LRR corpus and the concept of pre-texts. At the
very least, the very verbose discussion of the chain letter corpus on p 6 could be greatly
shortened.
In the discussion of the LRR corpus, the authors should stick to their corpus. There is no clear
motivation for the discussion of a Japanese wood cut when the tales under consideration are all
Dutch.
(2) The authors should align the work on fairy tale with folklore theory. The question of how
storytellers model their stories on other pretexts is a sound one, and implicit in a great deal of
folklore scholarship going back to the Grimms. This idea finds its clearest expression in the early
folklore method of the Krohns and Aarne, resulting in both the ATU index of fairy tales, and the
earliest folkloric method, the historic-geographic method. The authors seem either unaware of
the history of the problem, or believe there is little to be gotten there. While Zipes is an excellent
scholar, unless this work is focused on literary reworkings of fairy tales (something that should
be made much clearer if that is the case), then there are many other resources that would provide
significant support for the theoretical underpinnings of the work. Recasting the
paper as a confirmation of the role of tradition dominants in shaping tradition and the impact of
network transmissions of stories would situate this paper as making a major contribution to
folklore theory. If, however, this is based on literary reworkings of the tales, then that is fine--the
supplementary information should, at the very least, include a complete listing of all the tales
considered and their sources.
A small quibble concerns the limitation of the corpus to LRR tales exclusively. The suggestion
here is that LRR tales only use LRR tales as a pretext. Almost all folklore theory suggests a
different model of transmission, where storytellers use other tales as pre-texts for aspects of their
own retellings of tales adjusting those tellings to both the context of performance, and the active
tales in their own current story repertoires (what the authors label context-based attractiveness).
This problem is obviated if the corpus consists entirely of literary versions of tales--this may
indeed be the case in this study, but it is not immediately apparent. If the latter is the case, this
should be made clear immediately--"the story concerns literary reworkings of LRR published
Dutch story collections" for example. Since these stories would essentially be context-less, it
becomes easier to focus on "content based" attractiveness.
These terms (context and content based attractiveness) appear to be discarded in favor of the
interesting frequency based attractiveness, model based attractiveness (a form of context based
attractiveness), and temporal based attractiveness. It would be preferable to simply use these
forms of attractiveness throughout.
(3) the model of similarity, while well known and easily understood (here cosine dissimilarity
between tf-idf document vectors in the corpus) it is unclear that this is the appropriate
representation of the tale. Either a decomposition of the tales by motif chains, or an extended
feature set that includes motifs, would be far more likely to capture the inter reliance between
tales than a simple normalized word frequency vector. I am not convinced that a BOW model is
the best method for determining dependence of documents.
10
Similarity is notoriously difficult to determine between literary texts, something of which the
authors are aware. Interesting work in developing similarity networks for folktale corpora is
discussed in Abello et al (CACM 2012) but oddly missing from the list of references here. The
network thresholding is a reasonable approach to this problem if one accepts the tf-idf + cos
similarity network model.
The underlying theory of network transmission is that later retellings may skip generations of
stories--whereas linear transmission decays rapidly unless written (as in the case of the chain
letters) where variation is frequently introduced through scribal error (cf the entire middle ages!),
network transmission allows for a constant reinforcing signal to help limit noise. The question
then becomes, which signal is most likely to persist? Given a persistent signal, what network
phenomena can account for its persistence?
(4) there is far too much introductory material about the various models and statistical
approaches. All of the approaches are very well known and hardly need laborious rehearsal. For
example, the discussion of BOW models of text vectors and cosine (dis)similarity on page 9 are
standard machine learning techniques and hardly need explanation. The relaxed ranking
algorithm used to bootstrap
the network is interesting but could be described in a sentence or two. It is unclear to me why we
need pseudo-code on page 10 as there is nothing unusual about this implementation.
On p 11, it is unclear to me why story and pre-text are distinguished from each other--any story
can become a pre-text to a later story, so suggesting these are two different classes confuses the
issue (and seems to suggest a bimodal network model).
On pp 11-12, the discussion of well-known network models is superfluous--these are simple
descriptions/rehearsals of well-known phenomena. Figure 3 is superfluous.
Figure 4 is interesting, but needs to be described better. There would be more room to do so if the
chain letter portion is discarded.
On p 12 the decision to use the Gini coefficient is excellent--it gets lost in a lot of the previous
chatter, and would be more prominent if that material were significantly cut.
On p. 13, there seems to be an unmotivated focus on whether the in-degree distribution is a
power-law distribution or not. The motivation for this discussion becomes apparent later; the
authors should say much earlier that a power law implies a certain type of preferential
attachment. That rearrangment would then motivate the discussion of these different models--
power law,
log normal, exponential, etc.
On p 15, the discussion of preferential attachment becomes a bit tangential to the problem at
hand.
The novelty of the paper lies in the application of these methods to a specific corpus to measure
story change over time, proposing a model that helps explain why certain variants have greater
influence than other variants--that is an important confirmation in itself of the
proposal that folklore represents traditional cultural expressive forms circulating in and across
social networks.
The observation of lopsidedness to smaller timespans is very interesting, and a finding that
should be highlighted, not buried on p. 15! Just after that, the authors reach an important
conclusion: "In other words, retellings of Red Riding Hood do display preference to select alder
11
versions as their pre-text(s)...stories have individual values of attraction that lessen over time."
Showing this empirically is a very important finding. Unfortunately, this is almost lost in the
middle of a paragraph.
On p16, the paper shifts into statistical hyperdrive, and it is not entirely clear what is happening.
The selection of a Dirichlet may make a lot of sense, but many readers (this one included) may
have to stop and think about that for a while.
(5) the final concluding paragraph suggests motivation(s) for storyteller choices, but it is not
storyteller motivation that is modeled here--rather it is the outcome of a storytelling network
process. Why storytellers choose to tell stories is not addressed; once they decide to tell a story,
the PA model helps explain why the tradition takes on the contours it does, with certain well-
known stories acting as hubs. While "retellers of Red Riding Hood can choose from a vast amount
of story versions" is true for a literary tradition where retellers have perfect access to the corpus of
previously told/recorded variants, this is only the case for a literary tradition that has been well
indexed and archived.
The final paragraph equating preferential attachment to a neutral model of cultural evolution and
biological random drift has almost nothing to do with the paper at all, and the suggestions is
probably incorrect. At the very least, it posits a super-organic model for folklore where the stories
circulate independently of the storytellers. All modern folklore theory has qualitatively and, in
more recent work, quantitatively, has shown that this is not the case. No storytellers--no stories.
Storytelling is a social process and the choice to tell stories is highly motivated. The reason
something becomes popular is the important question--once something becomes popular people
imitate it; but equating this to biological random drift undermines all the good work in this
paper.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160071)
See Appendix A.
Author Response (Manuscript RSOS­160071)
We would like to thank the editors and the reviewers for their careful reading and insightful
comments which, amongst other things, greatly helped to clarify the main focus of the paper.
In what follows, we have thematically grouped the comments of the referees into seven
sections, each of which is accompanied with a detailed response.
1. Inclusion of Chain Letter corpus
Editor 1<U+200B> : “I am confused by the inclusion of the chain letters. I understand this is somewhat
akin to retelling a story, but it is hardly the same. The reader gets lost quite easily in what
exactly it is the authors are trying to communicate.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “I would also suggest eliminating the Chain Letter section altogether, publishing
that research as a separate article. The focus then would be on the LRR corpus and the
concept of pre­texts. At the very least, the very verbose discussion of the chain letter corpus
on p 6 could be greatly shortened.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “The reader is never quite sure as to why these two corpuses were chosen.
While the article begins with a discussion of Cinderella, the actual fairy tale in question is
Little Red Riding Hood­­the transition is jarring and adds confusion rather than clarity. I
would suggest starting with LRR, perhaps situating LRR in the larger fairy tale world, and
then sticking to LRR.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “The article attempts to do too much­­the study of fairy tales and chain letters
are fundamentally different. Assuming that the corpus of fairy tales is largely a corpus of
orally collected tales (given the large number, this is the presumption, although this may be
ncorrect­­the authors do not explain the corpus as clearly as they could), then the folktale
and chain letter corpuses differ fundamentally. Chain letters are, by the authors own
admission, largely reliant on the hand copying in multiple copies; as later technologies
become available (such as the photocopier and fax machine) rapid and consistent
transmission of the chain letter can take place (this technological shift may account for the
spike in transmission noted for the 1980s). Consequently, it is unclear that chain letters
make use of any pretext other than their immediate predecessor.”
Author response: W <U+200B>e acknowledge the confusion of the referees about the inclusion of the
chain letters. The referees rightfully point out that chain letters are fundamentally different
from fairy tales. However, our motivation to include the chain letters was to have a point of
reference against which the network of R <U+200B>ed Riding Hood c<U+200B> ould be compared. The advantage
of the chain letter network is that we have clear preconceptions about aspects of its structure
and development, whereas for R <U+200B>ed Riding Hood<U+200B> this is not the case. By showing that the
structural and developmental properties of the extracted chain letter network are indeed in
accordance with our preconceptions, we can be more certain about the validity of the
conclusions based on the R <U+200B>ed Riding Hood n <U+200B>etwork. We therefore choose to keep the chain
etters in the article, but, as per suggestion of the referees, have greatly shortened the data
description of the chain letters and have rearranged some of the sections (see e.g. the
to position the chain letter discussion primarily in light of validating our results. In the
ntroduction of the article we now more clearly motivate the inclusion of the chain letters:
“There is, however, a considerable difficulty associated with assessing the validity of
the extracted story network and its structural properties, as we lack a `ground truth' of
which story served as pre­text for a retelling. For this reason, we made the
methodological choice of comparing the structure and development of \emph{Red
Riding Hood}'s story network to that of a large collection of paper chain letters. This
collection consists of over five hundred letters from the \nth{20} century and
represents one hundred years of cultural copying. Although chain letters are
fundamentally different from fairy tales in many respects, they do make an interesting
comparison because of their explicit request to replicate and redistribute the contents
of the letter ­­ sometimes to a fixed number of people and often within a particular
time window. Crucially, because of this request, we can make at least two predictions
about the structure and development of a chain letter network. First, it can be
expected that chain letters are connected to pre­texts in close temporal proximity.
Second, in a perfect chain (i.e.\ when all successive recipients of a letter adhere to its
request), we can expect a graph structure with a relatively uniform degree
distribution, in which all stories exhibit approximately equal degree. These
expectations we have of the properties of chain letter networks are confirmed by
previous studies that have enhanced the understanding of spreading patterns in
Internet chain letter networks~\cite{liben­nowell:2008}. By showing that the extracted
chain letter network displays structural and developmental properties that are in
accordance with our preconceptions about these properties allows us to partially
check for the reliability of our methodology, and hence serves to strengthen our
confidence in the validity of conclusions based on the \emph{Red Riding Hood}
network and its extracted properties.”
2. Lengthy discussion
Editor 1<U+200B> : “The discussion at the end is also very lengthy and not everything seems to be
supported by the presented evidence. In short, the authors should carefully consider which
results to retain, and please refocus on the main messages, especially in the discussion,
which, as said, is too long.”
Reviewer 1: <U+200B> “The final paragraph equating preferential attachment to a neutral model of
cultural evolution and biological random drift has almost nothing to do with the paper at all,
and the suggestions is probably incorrect. At the very least, it posits a super­organic model
for folklore where the stories circulate independently of the storytellers. All modern folklore
theory has qualitatively and, in more recent work quantitatively, shown that this is not the
case. No storytellers­­no stories. Storytelling is a social process and the choice to tell stories
s highly motivated. The reason something becomes popular is the important question­­once
something becomes popular people imitate it; but equating this to biological random drift
undermines all the good work in this paper.”
final paragraph diverges from the main points we want to make in the paper. Therefore, we
decided to remove the final paragraph. Furthermore, Editor 1 rightly points out that our
discussion is quite lengthy. With the removal of the final paragraph, however, we believe that
the discussion has become more manageable and mainly presents information supported by
the evidence given.
3. Rearrangements
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “The observation of lopsidedness to smaller timespans is very interesting, and
a finding that should be highlighted, not buried on p. 15! Just after that, the authors reach an
mportant conclusion: "In other words, retellings of Red Riding Hood do display preference to
select alder versions as their pre­text(s)...stories have individual values of attraction that
essen over time." Showing this empirically is a very important finding. Unfortunately, this is
almost lost in the middle of a paragraph.”
Author response: <U+200B> Again, Reviewer 1 makes a very good suggestion to rearrange some our
findings and highlight them better. We have tried to highlight the findings a little more by
describing them more explicitly in the abstract, in the description of the visualizations of the
story networks (Figure 3, see our response below in Section 5), and in the introductory
paragraph of section 4(b).
From the abstract:
“[...] In the analysis, we first provide empirical evidence that the formation of these
story networks is subject to age­dependent selection processes with a strong
lopsidedness towards shorter time­spans between stories and their pre­texts (i.e.
`young' story versions are preferred in producing new versions). [...]”
From Section 4(b):
“In the present section we turn to the central question of how these distributions
come into being. By carefully studying and comparing the structure and evolution of
the two story networks to formal models of network growth, we provide empirical
evidence for three major conclusions regarding the formation of story networks. First,
we provide empirical evidence that stories preferentially select stories in close
temporal proximity, which is indicated by a strong lopsidedness towards smaller
time­spans in the time­span distributions of stories and their selected pre­texts.
Second, we show that the in­degree distribution of the \emph{Red Riding Hood}
network is significantly correlated with the age of stories, suggesting that retellings of
\emph{Red Riding Hood} are affected by a mechanism of preferential attachment in
which slightly older versions are preferred to be selected as pre­text(s) in producing a
new version. Finally, we show that stories have individual attractiveness values that
lessen over time.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “On p. 13, there seems to be an unmotivated focus on whether the in­degree
distribution is a power­law distribution or not. The motivation for this discussion becomes
apparent later; the authors should say much earlier that a power law implies a certain type of
different models­­power law, log normal, exponential, etc.”
Author response: <U+200B> The reviewer suggests to state much earlier that a power law distribution
might imply a certain type of preferential attachment. We agree, and have made this more
explicit in the outline of section 4:
“In what follows, we will statistically characterize these two observations by carefully
studying the in­degree distributions of the two story networks. Accurately
characterizing the in­degree distribution of the two networks is a fundamental
prerequisite to understand which models of network growth potentially underlie the
evolution of the two story networks. A power­law characterization of the in­degree
distribution, for example, might be accounted for by models of network growth such
as the Preferential Attachment model (cf.\ Section 4\ref{sec:network­evolution}).
Subsequently, we will study the development of the two story networks over time. We
compare four models of network growth and analyze their in­degree distributions in
relation to those of the two story networks.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “On p 12 the decision to use the Gini coefficient is excellent­­it gets lost in a lot
of the previous chatter, and would be more prominent if that material were significantly cut.”
Author response: <U+200B> We have cut some of the details describing network­theoretic statistics in
order to make the decision to use the Gini coefficient more prominent (also see the
responses to other suggested cuts below).
4. Additional References
Editor 1<U+200B> : “In the introduction, in terms of frequency­based attractiveness, recently an
argument was made that this may be behind the most frequent words and phrases of the
English language too in Evolution of the most common English words and phrases over the
centuries, J. R. Soc. Interface 9, 3323­3328 (2012). Perhaps worth a referral.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “The question of the chain letter and network transmission has been addressed
n classic studies by Liben­Nowell and Kleinberg (PNAS 2008, vol. 105, no. 12. 4633­4638).
While they study a more recent internet chain letter transmission, it appears to be highly
related to this article, and their findings may help account for the pretext model that the
authors discovered for chain letters.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “The authors should align the work on fairy tale with folklore theory. The
question of how storytellers model their stories on other pretexts is a sound one, and implicit
n a great deal of folklore scholarship going back to the Grimms. This idea finds its clearest
expression in the early folklore method of the Krohns and Aarne, resulting in both the ATU
ndex of fairy tales, and the earliest folkloric method, the historic­geographic method. The
authors seem either unaware of the history of the problem, or believe there is little to be
gotten there. While Zipes is an excellent scholar, unless this work is focused on literary
reworkings of fairy tales (something that should be made much clearer if that is the case),
underpinnings of the work. Recasting the paper as a confirmation of the role of tradition
dominants in shaping tradition and the impact of network transmissions of stories would
situate this paper as making a major contribution to folklore theory. If, however, this is based
on literary reworkings of the tales, then that is fine­­the supplementary information should, at
the very least, include a complete listing of all the tales considered and their sources.
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “Perhaps the most glaring lack in the paper is an appreciation of the
sophisticated history of folklore theory dealing with precisely the questions of stability and
variation over time. Similarly, there is little awareness of computational approaches to
folklore that explore questions of variation (similarity and difference) over much larger
corpora (cf. Abello et al in CACM). The paper would benefit greatly with the addition of a
more robust grounding in folklore theory given the considerable scholarship.”
Author response: <U+200B> The reviewers rightfully point out that the paper might benefit from being
embedded more extensively in folklore theory. However, since our <U+200B> Red Riding Hood<U+200B> corpus
consists solely of literary retellings of the story (see the remark below), we believe that the
seminal work by Zipes, Beckett and Stephens & McCallum forms sufficient theoretical
background to the paper. We fully acknowledge that we should mention recent
computational approaches to folklore and how questions of variation have been addressed
n that work. We therefore included the suggested reference to Abello et al. (2012) in our
discussion, in which we briefly reflect on different levels of abstraction and comparison to
form story networks. Furthermore, we included the suggested reference to the study on
Internet chain letters by Liben­Nowell and Kleinberg (2008) in our introduction. We believe
that the suggestion to refer to the study about the evolution of the most common English
words and phrases is a little far removed from the main topic of the current article, and
therefore we decided not to include it.
5. Clarifications
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “In the discussion of the LRR corpus, the authors should stick to their corpus.
There is no clear motivation for the discussion of a Japanese wood cut when the tales under
consideration are all Dutch.”
Author response: <U+200B> We agree with the reviewer on this point and we have included a
different example from our own collection of “Red Riding Hood” retellings along with a brief
ntroduction:
“The experimental retelling written by Ivo de Wijs with illustrations by Alfons van
Heusden (1994) serves as a wonderful example of the third branch as it diverges
radically from the tradition, both in form and in content. The story is part of a
Roodkapje en de zeven geitjes<U+200B>
collection entitled <U+200B> (`Red Riding Hood and the Seven
Kids'). This rather unusual juxtaposition of characters from two famous fairy tales
serves to emphasize the bricolage nature of the stories to come. Each story in the
book tells three different versions of a story. On each page, supposedly aligned
fragments of the three versions are placed side by side in three columns, each with
before moving on to the next page. The following fragment serves to illustrate some
of the radical changes the story has undergone:
“Once upon a time there was a little girl called Gretel. Well, her name was Gretel, but
she was called Little Red Cap because of her flaming red hair. Little Red Cap lived
with her grandmother in an old tower out in the woods. One day grandmother went to
the city to buy biscuits and lemonade ­­ and a cough medicine because Little Red
Cap wasn't feeling well. `Come back soon, grandmother,' said Little Red Cap, `walk
briskly!' And grandmother went on her way.””
Reviewer 1: “On p16, the paper shifts into statistical hyperdrive, and it is not entirely clear
what is happening. The selection of a Dirichlet may make a lot of sense, but many readers
(this one included) may have to stop and think about that for a while.”
Author response: <U+200B> We have included some additional lines to make our choice for the
Dirichlet a little more clear:
“Each node <U+200B> i<U+200B>is assigned an individual initial attractiveness value $\beta^i_0$, which
is sampled from a symmetric Dirichlet distribution with hyper­parameter
$\phi$.\footnote{Our choice for sampling from a Dirichlet distribution is largely
motivated by the fact Dirichlet processes are often employed to model data that, like
story networks, tend to develop in a `rich get richer' fashion.} Values of $\phi$
between zero and one generally result in a more `peaky' attractiveness distribution, in
which only a few nodes are highly attractive. Higher values ($\phi \geq 1$) result in a
more uniform attractiveness distribution.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “On p 11, it is unclear to me why story and pre­text are distinguished from each
other­­any story can become a pre­text to a later story, so suggesting these are two different
classes confuses the issue (and seems to suggest a bimodal network model).”
Author response: <U+200B> It was not our intention to distinguish between stories and pre­texts. We
have added a footnote to this part in order to avoid any potential confusion:
“To avoid any misunderstandings, it should be stressed that we do n <U+200B>ot<U+200B>treat stories
and pre­texts as two separate classes, as any story can become a pre­text to a later
story.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “A small quibble concerns the limitation of the corpus to LRR tales exclusively.
The suggestion here is that LRR tales only use LRR tales as a pretext. Almost all folklore
theory suggests a different model of transmission, where storytellers use other tales as
pre­texts for aspects of their own retellings of tales adjusting those tellings to both the
context of performance, and the active tales in their own current story repertoires (what the
authors label context­based attractiveness). This problem is obviated if the corpus consists
entirely of literary versions of tales­­this may indeed be the case in this study, but it is not
mmediately apparent. If the latter is the case, this should be made clear immediately­­"the
Since these stories would essentially be context­less, it becomes easier to focus on "content
based" attractiveness.”
Author response:<U+200B> Our corpus consists entirely of literary retellings of “Red Riding Hood”,
which, as the reviewer already states, obviates the problem. At several places in the
manuscript we made it more clear that our corpus consists of literary retellings.
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “Figure 4 is interesting, but needs to be described better. There would be more
room to do so if the chain letter portion is discarded.”
Author response: <U+200B> We have altered the introduction to the figure (which is now Figure 3) by
providing a more detailed description.
“Two important observations can be made from visually inspecting the two networks.
First, let us consider the chain letter network. As indicated in the introduction and
data section, chain letters are explicitly designed to be replicated and redistributed
within a short period of time. To confirm the reliability of our methodology, then, the
story network extracted by the \emph{Bootstrap Neighbor Clustering} procedure has
to be in accordance with some of our preconceptions about the structure of chain
letter story networks. The visualization in Figure \ref{fig:network­visualization}
indicates that this appears to be the case: most stories in the network are connected
to other stories with a similar color shade, which means that, in the chain letter
network, stories predominantly select stories of approximately the same age as
potential pre­texts. Interestingly, the second (\emph{Red Riding hood}) network
exhibits a similar pattern, with each story showing a clear preference to select
pre­texts with a similar color shade (i.e.\ close temporal proximity). Second, it can be
observed that the network derived from \emph{Red Riding Hood} retellings has a
structure with a few hubs, i.e. where three or four stories function as pre­text for a
large number of stories (which is represented by the size of the nodes in the
networks). The chain letter network, on the other hand, displays a more uniform
distribution over which stories function as pre­text, which also is in accordance with
our expectations about the structure of chain letter networks (cf.\ Section
\ref{sec:introduction}).”
6. Minor edits
Editor 1: “Figures have very short captions, but they should be able to stand on their own
more. Please improve this by stating also the main message/results in each figure with a
sentence or two.”
Author response: <U+200B> The editor makes a valid point here and we have added some additional
sentences to the captions in order to make sure that they stand on their own.
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “These terms (context and content based attractiveness) appear to be
discarded in favor of the interesting frequency based attractiveness, model based
would be preferable to simply use these forms of attractiveness throughout.”
Author response: <U+200B> We agree with the reviewer that it might be more clear to use the
alternative wordings throughout the paper. However, the terms context­ and content­based
attractiveness are often used in evolutionary studies, which is why we first introduce these
known terms and subsequently refine these terms for our purposes. We have attempted to
make the connection between the different wordings more clear in the following way:
“First, besides frequency­based attractiveness, stories might be differentially
preferred given their t<U+200B> emporal attractiveness<U+200B>
, which is a form of context­based
attractiveness.” (p. 3)
“Second, a story might also be more (or less) attractive because, for example, its
author enjoys high esteem. This type of context­based attractiveness we will term
model­based attractiveness.<U+200B> ” (p. 3)
7. Suggested cuts
Editor 1<U+200B> : “The algorithm need not be presented in this technical form since it is well­known
and easy to find elsewhere. If you insist on showing this, then please move it to an
appending of suppl. Material.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “(4) there is far too much introductory material about the various models and
statistical approaches. All of the approaches are very well known and hardly need laborious
rehearsal. For example, the discussion of BOW models of text vectors and cosine
(dis)similarity on page 9 are standard machine learning techniques and hardly need
explanation. The relaxed ranking algorithm used to bootstrap the network is interesting but
could be described in a sentence or two. It is unclear to me why we need pseudo­code on
page 10 as there is nothing unusual about this implementation.”
Author response:<U+200B> We agree with the referees that the algorithm is relatively well­known and
need not be presented in this technical form in the paper. We decided to remove the formal
description from the paper. Furthermore, we have removed significant parts of the laborious
model descriptions and introductions to well­known statistical methods (see section 3(a) and
3(b)).
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “On pp 11­12, the discussion of well­known network models is
superfluous­­these are simple descriptions/rehearsals of well­known phenomena. Figure 3 is
superfluous.”
Reviewer 1<U+200B> : “On p 15, the discussion of preferential attachment becomes a bit tangential to
the problem at hand.”
Author response:<U+200B> We acknowledge that the paper is somewhat verbose in its description of
the network models, machine learning techniques and other well­known phenomena from
descriptions in sections 3 and 4.
Society Open
