Accelerated degradation of polyetheretherketone and its
composites in the deep sea
Hao Liu, Jianzhang Wang, Pengfei Jiang and Fengyuan Yan
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171775.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171775
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 November 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171775.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Helena Janik)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
None confidential comments to Editor. General notes for authors and Edotor attached as separate
file. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The work is application oriented. There are minor corrections.
1. In many places sentence begin with "And". Kindly avoid it.
2. In table 2 the constant a, b and c decrease with initial and saturated state for the PEEK and
composites. Can any reason be proposed for this decreasing trend.
3. Why only water connected to macromolecules by hydrogen bond cause change in properties ?
Why not other absorbded water molecules cause this change ?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171775)
19-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Liu
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171775 entitled
3
"Accelerated Degradation of Polyetheretherketone and Its Composites in the Deep Sea" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171775
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
4
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
5
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
None confidential comments to Editor. General notes for authors and Editor attached as separate
file.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The work is application oriented. There are minor corrections.
1. In many places sentence begin with "And". Kindly avoid it.
2. In table 2 the constant a, b and c decrease with initial and saturated state for the PEEK and
composites. Can any reason be proposed for this decreasing trend.
3. Why only water connected to macromolecules by hydrogen bond cause change in properties ?
Why not other absorbded water molecules cause this change ?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171775)
See Appendix B.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171775.R1)
23-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Liu,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Accelerated Degradation of
Polyetheretherketone and Its Composites in the Deep Sea" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
1.In the end of introduction : no clear goal of the paper. It is rather scope. So it is advised to chnge
the construction of the sentences.
2. Why only 10 % compositions were tested?
3. How was measured hydrostatic pressure-it should be added, what kind of device…? Hoe was it
simulated?
4. Give the code of balance
5. It was mentioned that the temp. of sample drying was room temp. Please give more precisely, as
different lab. Have different temp.
7. It would be valuable to add the crystallization temp. as general information
8. No methodology, device of morphological studies (Fig. 6). No data about the roughness
measurements- nowadays there are many instruments to measure it and give the statistical data.
Appendix B
Letter to editor
Dear Editor,
Thanks for your and reviewers’ instructive comments on our manuscript entitled
“Accelerated Degradation of Polyetheretherketone and Its Composites in the
Deep Sea”(RSOS-171775). We have revised the manuscript according to the
comments given by the reviewers. The revisions were highlighted in red in the revised
manuscript and supplemental material. Please see the revised versions as reference.
We hope that the revisions can make the questions raised by the reviewers clear.
We appreciate your consideration for our manuscript, and we look forward to hear
from you soon. Any further information and suggestions are greatly appreciated.
With best regards,
Sincerely,
Dr. Jianzhang Wang
Corresponding author
State Key Laboratory of Solid Lubrication
Lanzhou Institute of Chemical Physics
Chinese Academy of Sciences
Lanzhou 730000, P. R. China
E-mail address: wjzsci@163.com
Tel.: +86-931-4968019
Response to the reviewers
Reviewer: 1
1.In the end of introduction : no clear goal of the paper. It is rather scope. So it is
advised to change the construction of the sentences.
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. According to the comment, the construction of
the sentences in the end of introduction has been changed. The goal of the paper has
been illustrated as follows: We believe that the results will benefit the fundamental
understanding of the wear behavior of thermoplastic polymers, providing theoretical
and technical guidance for the design, material selection and protection of friction
components serving in deep sea.
2. Why only 10 % compositions were tested?
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. CF/PEEK composites with different fiber
volume fraction have been studied and reported in our previous work (Chen B, Wang
J, Yan F. Tribol Int, 2012, 52, 170).
In section 2.3, page 6, a sentence of “A carbon fiber of 10% was chosen due to
its optimum balance between stiffness, toughness, thermal stability, and more
importantly, the tribological performance in seawater[17]” has been added to describe
the reason why only 10% CF/PEEK composite was tested.
3. How was measured hydrostatic pressure-it should be added, what kind of
device…? How was it simulated?
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. According to the comment, in section 2.4, page
6, the sentences “Hydrostatic pressure was controlled by manually operated high
pressure control valves, which are supplied with the valve panel assembly. Two are
provided to be used with the inlet and outlet ports. The hydrostatic pressure was
measured by a pressure gauge, which is attached to the top of the pressure vessel. The
value of hydrostatic pressure was recorded by a pressure transducer. The pressure
transducer output is 4~20 mA” have been added.
4. Give the code of balance
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. According to the comment, in section 2.4, page
7, the sentence “Then the wear mass loss of the pin was measured using an electronic
balance with an accuracy of 0.1 mg” has been revised to “Then the wear mass loss of
the pin was measured using an electronic balance with an accuracy of 0.1 mg (Ohaus,
AdventureTM No. 121240520)”.
5. It was mentioned that the temp. of sample drying was room temp. Please give
more precisely, as different lab. Have different temp.
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. In section 2.6, page 9, the room temperature in
the laboratory has been added. The sentence “Mechanical properties measurements
were performed after the saturated samples had been fully dried at room temperature
to constant weights” has been revised to “Mechanical properties measurements were
performed after the saturated samples had been fully dried at room temperature to
constant weights (~25<U+2103>)”.
7. It would be valuable to add the crystallization temp. as general information
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. In section 2.3, page 6, the sentence “The
crystallization temperature of PEEK was reported to be 303.6<U+2103>[26]” has been added.
8. No methodology, device of morphological studies (Fig. 6). No data about the
roughness measurements- nowadays there are many instruments to measure it
and give the statistical data.
Response: Thanks for the good suggestion. According to the comment, section 2.7 in
page 10 has been rewritten. After revision, the methodology and device of
morphological studies has been studied. The paragraph “The worn surfaces of
CF/PEEK and the counterpart 316 SS were observed by JEM-1200EX scanning
electron microscope (SEM). In order to increase the resolution of SEM observations,
the worn surfaces were plated with gold coating to render them electrically conductive”
has been revised to “In order to research how the worn surface morphology of
CF/PEEK and the counterpart 316SS changes in different hydrostatic pressure, SEM
analysis was conducted by a JEM-1200EX scanning electron microscope (JEOL Ltd.,
Japan). The accelerating voltage for the SEM observations is 20 kV and the load
current is approximately 70 µA. Before observation, worn surface of the samples have
been coated with a thin film of gold by an auto fine coater (JFC-1600, JEOL Ltd.,
Japan). 3 samples worn in one specific hydrostatic pressure were utilized. For each
sample, 5 places on the surfaces of each sample were selected at random. SEM
micrograph was magnified to a magnification of 1000 for CF/PEEK and 500 for
316SS, and the characteristic morphology of worn surface has clearly been visible.”
There is no doubt that it is necessary and imperative to quantitatively evaluate
the surface roughness and give the statistical data. However, it is beyond the scope of
this paper. In fact, in our previous work, the worn surfaces of the CF/PEEK composite
lubricated by seawater had been examined by an atomic force microscopy (AFM)
with the lateral and vertical resolutions of 1 nm and 0.1 nm, respectively (Chen B,
Wang J, Yan F. Tribol Int, 2012, 52, 170). It is concluded that the surface roughness
of sliding CF/PEEK composite will increase with the increase of carbon fiber exposed
thereon.
Reviewer: 2
The work is application oriented. There are minor corrections.
1. In many places sentence begin with "And". Kindly avoid it.
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. We have carefully checked the whole paper,
and 6 modifications have been made to the phrases started by “And”. The word “And”
has been deleted directly. For instance, in section 2.6, page 9, the sentence “And the
mechanical properties of PEEK and its composites unaffected by seawater absorption
were also examined using the same methods” has been revised to “The mechanical
properties of PEEK and its composites unaffected by seawater absorption were also
examined using the same methods”.
2. In table 2 the constant a, b and c decrease with initial and saturated state for
the PEEK and composites. Can any reason be proposed for this decreasing
trend.
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. The physical interpretation of the constants, a,
b and c is not clear yet. According to the comment, we will pay more attention in the
follow-up study. To determine the exact reason of this decreasing trend, the specimens
in intermediate states with different seawater absorption amount between the dry state
and the saturated state will be tested.
3. Why only water connected to macromolecules by hydrogen bond cause change
in properties? Why not other absorbed water molecules cause this change?
Response: Thanks for the suggestion. It is well studied that the absorbed water
usually exists in two states within the polymer, which can be defined as follows: free
water, which undergoes similar thermal phase transitions to that of bulk water;
freezable bound water, which interacts with the polymer chains due to hydrogen bond
(Hodge R M, Polymer, 1996, 37, 1371). The absorbed free water can also induce
property changes in polymers. For example, at RT and above, dry specimens are
stiffer than wet ones since water is considered to act as a softening agent (spacer
between chains) (Baschek G, Polymer, 1999, 40, 3433). However, when water is
desorbed, the toughness can recover. Therefore, it is better to use “irreversible
changes in properties” rather than “changes in properties”. In section 3.2, page 14, the
sentence “…previously indicated that only water connected to macromolecules by
hydrogen bonds can cause changes in properties of PEEK materials[33, 34]” has been
revised to “…previously indicated that only water connected to macromolecules by
hydrogen bonds can cause irreversible changes in properties of PEEK materials[33,
34]”.
Society Open
