Testing the adaptive radiation hypothesis for the lemurs of
Madagascar
James P. Herrera
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161014.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161014
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 December 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Final acceptance: 12 December 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161014)
12-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Herrera,
Following Editor assessment, I am pleased to inform you that your transferred manuscript
entitled "Testing the adaptive radiation hypothesis for the lemurs of Madagascar" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The author has done a good job of accommodating all of the previous reviewer and editorial
comments and has adjusted the tone and balance of the discussion and conclusions
appropriately.
Society Open
