Oviposition preference of cabbage white butterflies in the
framework of costs and benefits of interspecific herbivore
associations
Kaori Shiojiri, Maurice Sabelis and Junji Takabayashi
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150524.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150524
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 September 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 3 November 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150524)
20-Oct-2015
Dear Dr Takabayashi,
Thank you for submitting your revised manuscript to Royal Society Open Science after peer
review in Proceedings B. The editors assigned to your paper ("Oviposition preference of cabbage
white butterflies in the framework of costs and benefits of interspecific herbivore associations")
have made a decision on your revision and we would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the Editor's which can be found below (not including confidential comments). Please note
this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 12-Nov-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150524
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
3
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Sean Rands):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
I’m broadly happy with the responses you have made to the editor and reviewers of this
manuscript in its previous incarnation, but would like to see all of the statistics conducted before
I am able to make a final decision. In a revised version, please could you make sure that you
present *all* of the statistical information you have generated (including the non-significant
results), such as the F values with their degrees of freedom for the ANOVA, the actual p values
for the binomial tests, and the N values for the Mann-Whitney tests. I trust this additional
information won’t take too long to insert.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150524
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150524
MS Title: Oviposition preference of cabbage white butterflies in the framework of costs and
benefits of interspecific herbivore associations
MS Authors: Takabayashi, Junji; Sabelis, Maurice; Shiojiri, Kaori
Contact Author: Junji Takabayashi
Contact Author Email: junji@ecology.kyoto-u.ac.jp
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City:
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: Japan
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code:
Keywords: oviposition decision, cabbage plants, Pieris rapae, ants, Plutella xylostella
4
Abstract: When deciding where to oviposit, herbivorous insects consider (1) the plant’s value as a
food source, (2) the risks of competing with con- and hetero-specific herbivores, and (3) the risks
of parasitism and predation on the host plant. The presence of con- and/or hetero-specific
competitors would further affect the oviposition preference because the preceding herbivores
induce direct/indirect defences in plants against forthcoming herbivores, and thereby alter
oviposition decisions. In previous studies, the above factors have not been studied in an
integrative manner. We performed here a case study of this by assessing the oviposition
preferences of a small white butterfly, Pieris rapae, for plants occupied by combinations of
conspecific larvae, heterospecific larvae (Plutella xylostella), specialist parasitoids of P. rapae
(Cotesia glomerata), and generalist predators (ants). We previously reported that the females
showed equal preference for P. xylostella-infested and uninfested plants. Here, we showed that
Pieris rapae females preferred uninfested plants to conspecific-infested ones, and P. xylostella-
infested plants to P. rapae-infested ones. We discuss these oviposition preferences of P. rapae
females in the framework of costs and benefits of interspecific herbivore associations from the
above point of view.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150524)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150524.R1)
03-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Takabayashi,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Oviposition preference of cabbage
white butterflies in the framework of costs and benefits of interspecific herbivore associations" is
now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (emilie.aime@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-
mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if
comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
5
***************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150524.R1
Article Status: ACCEPTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150524.R1
MS Title: Oviposition preference of cabbage white butterflies in the framework of costs and
benefits of interspecific herbivore associations
MS Authors: Shiojiri, Kaori; Sabelis, Maurice; Takabayashi, Junji
Contact Author: Junji Takabayashi
Contact Author Email: junji@ecology.kyoto-u.ac.jp
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City:
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: Japan
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code:
Keywords: oviposition decision, cabbage plants, Pieris rapae, ants, Plutella xylostella
Abstract: When deciding where to oviposit, herbivorous insects consider (1) the plant’s value as a
food source, (2) the risks of competing with con- and hetero-specific herbivores, and (3) the risks
of parasitism and predation on the host plant. The presence of con- and/or hetero-specific
competitors would further affect the oviposition preference because the preceding herbivores
induce direct/indirect defences in plants against forthcoming herbivores, and thereby alter
oviposition decisions. In previous studies, the above factors have not been studied in an
integrative manner. We performed here a case study of this by assessing the oviposition
preferences of a small white butterfly, Pieris rapae, for plants occupied by combinations of
conspecific larvae, heterospecific larvae (Plutella xylostella), specialist parasitoids of P. rapae
(Cotesia glomerata), and generalist predators (ants). We previously reported that the females
showed equal preference for P. xylostella-infested and uninfested plants. Here, we showed that
Pieris rapae females preferred uninfested plants to conspecific-infested ones, and P. xylostella-
infested plants to P. rapae-infested ones. We discuss these oviposition preferences of P. rapae
females in the framework of costs and benefits of interspecific herbivore associations from the
above point of view.
EndDryadContent
Appendix A
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Sean Rands): Associate Editor Comments to the Author:
I’m broadly happy with the responses you have made to the editor and reviewers of this
manuscript in its previous incarnation, but would like to see all of the statistics conducted
before I am able to make a final decision. In a revised version, please could you make sure
that you present *all* of the statistical information you have generated (including the non-
significant results), such as the F values with their degrees of freedom for the ANOVA, the
actual p values for the binomial tests, and the N values for the Mann-Whitney tests. I trust
this additional information won’t take too long to insert.
Response
We added the details of the statistical data.
We added P values in Table 2.
We used Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test in the revised manuscript and added the statistical
information.
For the comment on the statistics of Figure 3: In the original file, we did ANOVA and then
applied Tukey’s HSD. However, since ANOVA is not mandatory to use Tukey, we simply said in
the text that we subjected the data of each observation record to Tukey’s HSD (alfa = 0.05).
Society Open
