Social dominance modulates eavesdropping in zebrafish
Rodrigo Abril-de-Abreu, Ana S. Cruz and Rui F. Oliveira
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150220.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150220
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 May 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 16 July 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 July 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150220.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Caio Maximino)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supplementary Files are adequate, clearly and superbly constructed, including raw data and
exemplary videos. Adding the Matlab scripts used to analyze data would increase not only
reproducibility, but also facilitate the utilization of the proposed protocols for other purposes. I'd
also recommend setting up a git repository for the script, since software is especially mutable
with time as researchers change to better suit their purposes; using a repository that is regularly
updated (as opposed to a static file on this journal's servers), authors could provide readers with
updates to the protocol. The authors can easily set up a repository following these two tutorials:
http://nyuccl.org/pages/gittutorial/
https://github.com/blog/1840-improving-github-for-science
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors provide a concise yet robust analysis of zebrafish behavior towards conspecifics in
relation to both social status (dominants vs subordinates) and information gathering
("eavesdropping"). Both variables are a staple of the authors' previous work, which is well-
established and provides innovative and solid protocols for the establishment of both
subordinate-dominant hierarchies and "eavesdropping". The methods are sound and the results
interesting and innovative, opening avenues for future research. The conclusions are appropriate
for the results. I have only two small concerns:
1) The authors describe, in their methods, that animals were housed in "enriched" tanks. How
was enrichment made? By adding natural or artificial plants? By adding refuges? Etc Please
include this information (as briefly or as long as needed) in that section
2) While the authors do follow the journal recommendations regarding data availability, they
used custom Matlab scripts which could be potentially useful in reanalyzing the data or
reproducing the experiments; I suggest that the authors also add these scripts as supplementary
information. I'd also recommend setting up a git repository for the script, since software is
especially mutable with time as researchers change it to better suit their purposes; using a
repository that is regularly updated (as opposed to a static file on this journal's servers), authors
could provide readers with updates to the protocol. The authors can easily set up a repository
following these two tutorials: http://nyuccl.org/pages/gittutorial/
https://github.com/blog/1840-improving-github-for-science
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (will Norton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Supporting data is included in the supplementary files. This includes the raw data that can be
reanalysed by other labs. Some of the materials and methods could be included in the main text
to improve clarity.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Dr Will Norton, University of Leicester.
This manuscript by Abril-de-Abreu and colleagues describes an experiment to study social
eavesdropping in zebrafish. Adult bystander fish are permitted to observe a dyadic interaction
which leads to the formation of a dominance hierarchy. The bystander’s behaviour towards both
the winner and loser is then measured giving an insight into how zebrafish can use social
information to influence their social interaction. This is an interesting study that presents several
novel pieces of information – for example, it would appear that zebrafish can recognise other
animals since they can tell the winner apart from the loser. However, there are several points
which I feel should be addressed in order to strengthen this research. These points are listed
below.
Major points
1) Materials and methods section. How long did it take for dominance to be established? How
much did this vary between different dyadic pairs of fish?
2) The levels of aggression that the bystanders saw should be quantified and used a variable in
this analysis. Presumably each dyadic displayed different amounts aggression before a
dominance hierarchy was formed. Thus the quantity of aggression that each fish observed will
influence the power of the bystander effect in this experiment.
3) What did the bystander fish do whilst the dyadic pair was fighting (ie during- rather than
before or after a fight)? Did they stay in one place and monitor the fight, or did they swim around
their tank? This information can be gleaned from supplementary film 2, but could be included in
the main part of the paper.
4) The idea of individual recognition is interesting and could be tested further. Both the bystander
and the winner/loser of the dyadic fight could be placed in new arenas permitting them to view
each other. Rproj could then be used as a measure of attention to see whether the attention
directed towards winners depends upon context or not. Furthermore, this experiment could be
repeated over a number of days to measure attention and memory over time.
5) I have a different interpretation of the reduction of swimming shown by dominant individuals.
In zebrafish, slower swimming and freezing are often reported as a read-out of anxiety/fear. Is it
possible that the dominant animals position themselves towards dyadic subordinates because
they are fearful? Such a position would perhaps reduce the possibility of aggression from the
dominant winner (who has already demonstrated his winning prowess).
Minor points
1) The sentence on line 43 beginning “One that bystanders can eavesdrop…” is fragmented and
needs to be re-written.
2) For the sake of clarity, it would be useful to include the unpublished data mentioned in line 56
(a brief summary of the salient form and features would be helpful).
3) There are some minor grammar errors (although in general this is a well-written paper that is
easy to read). For example, there is a lack of apostrophes (Bystanders instead of bystander’s) in
several places. Through is miss-spelt at the beginning of the supplementary information section
(“Trough”). The grammar should be checked throughout.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150220)
25-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Oliveira,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Social dominance modulates eavesdropping in
zebrafish") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper
in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 18-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
5
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150220)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150220.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (will Norton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
6
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Dr Will Norton, University of Leicester
Thank you answering my previous suggestions clearly. I am happy with this version of the
manuscript.
I would like to highlight the fact that there are still several places where apostrophes need to be
added or amended: for example conspecific's and eavesdroppers'. I am sorry to bring this up
again, but it is very frustrating for the authors when a manuscript is published with minor
spelling errors in it.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150220.R1)
28-Jul-2015
Dear Dr Oliveira,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Social dominance modulates
eavesdropping in zebrafish" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
Response to Editor and Referees
paper: Social dominance modulates eavesdropping in zebrafish
Editor:
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Social dominance modulates
eavesdropping in zebrafish") has now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to
the Editor).
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also
ensure that your revised manuscript contains the following sections before the
reference list:
Ethics statement
Data accessibility
Competing interests
Authors contributions
Acknowledgements
Funding statement
> All sections have now been revised and included in the text.
Reviewer 1:
This manuscript by Abril-de-Abreu and colleagues describes an experiment to study
social eavesdropping in zebrafish. Adult bystander fish are permitted to observe a
dyadic interaction which leads to the formation of a dominance hierarchy. The
bystander¹s behaviour towards both the winner and loser is then measured giving
an insight into how zebrafish can use social information to influence their social
interaction. This is an interesting study that presents several novel pieces of
information for example, it would appear that zebrafish can recognise other
animals since they can tell the winner apart from the loser. However, there are
several points which I feel should be addressed in order to strengthen this research.
These points are listed below.
Major points
1) Materials and methods section. How long did it take for dominance to be
established? How much did this vary between different dyadic pairs of fish?
> Analysis of the fight resolution times has now been added to the Methods,
Results and Discussion sections of the text.
2) The levels of aggression that the bystanders saw should be quantified and used a
variable in this analysis. Presumably each dyadic displayed different amounts
aggression before a dominance hierarchy was formed. Thus the quantity of
aggression that each fish observed will influence the power of the bystander effect
in this experiment.
> Following the reviewer’s suggestion, we now quantified all fighting dyads’
latencies to fight (a measure of aggressive priming) and the fight resolution
times (a measure of differences in fighting ability of the opponents), and
performed correlation analyses between these variables and the bystander
effects. We included these analyses in the Methods, Results and Discussion
sections of the text.
Note: in our experimental paradigm the fighting demonstrators were not
individually tagged, to avoid providing unintentional cues to eavesdroppers
and to avoid behavioural changes during the fights. This prevented us to
further analyse individual aggressive behaviours in this study. We address
this issue and future possibilities in the Discussion section.
3) What did the bystander fish do whilst the dyadic pair was fighting (ie. during-
rather than before or after a fight)? Did they stay in one place and monitor the fight,
or did they swim around their tank? This information can be gleaned from
supplementary film 2, but could be included in the main part of the paper.
> We now included this analysis in the Methods, Results and Discussion
sections and added a new figure with the corresponding results (figure 3).
4) The idea of individual recognition is interesting and could be tested further. Both
the bystander and the winner/loser of the dyadic fight could be placed in new
arenas permitting them to view each other. Rproj could then be used as a measure
of attention to see whether the attention directed towards winners depends upon
context or not. Furthermore, this experiment could be repeated over a number of
days to measure attention and memory over time.
> We agree with the reviewer that this idea is certainly worth pursuing in
future studies, including context and memory paradigms as suggested.
However, it is outside the scope of the current paper.
5) I have a different interpretation of the reduction of swimming shown by
dominant individuals. In zebrafish, slower swimming and freezing are often
reported as a read-out of anxiety/fear. Is it possible that the dominant animals
position themselves towards dyadic subordinates because they are fearful? Such a
position would perhaps reduce the possibility of aggression from the dominant
winner (who has already demonstrated his winning prowess).
> In our study, results showed no slower swimming for bystander subordinate
fish, who also witnessed the fights and would thus be expected, in agreement
with the suggested interpretation, to exhibit more submissive or fearful
behaviours as well. Moreover, the amount of time spent in proximity to
winners and losers was not significantly different (figure 2b), suggesting that
dominant bystanders were not particularly avoiding the winners. Additionally
winners and losers of the fights could not see the bystanders (one-way
mirrors were used) and therefore did not exhibit aggressive behaviour
towards bystanders. However, we think the reviewer raises an interesting
possibility and his suggestion is complementary to ours: that dominant
bystanders may be monitoring a weaker rival, while avoiding confrontation
with a dominant one. We revised the mentioned section in the Discussion in
order to incorporate the reviewer’s suggestion.
Minor points
1) The sentence on line 43 beginning ‘One that bystanders can eavesdrop’ is
fragmented and needs to be re-written.
> The text has been changed accordingly.
2) For the sake of clarity, it would be useful to include the unpublished
data mentioned in line 56 (a brief summary of the salient form and
features would be helpful).
> The text has been changed accordingly and now includes examples of the
mentioned data.
3) There are some minor grammar errors (although in general this is a
well-written paper that is easy to read). For example, there is a lack of
apostrophes (Bystanders instead of bystander¹s) in several places.
Through is miss-spelt at the beginning of the supplementary information
section (³Trough²). The grammar should be checked throughout.
> The text has been revised and changed accordingly.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors provide a concise yet robust analysis of zebrafish behaviour towards
conspecifics in relation to both social status (dominants vs subordinates) and
information gathering ("eavesdropping"). Both variables are a staple of the authors'
previous work, which is well-established and provides innovative and solid
protocols for the establishment of both subordinate-dominant hierarchies and
"eavesdropping". The methods are sound and the results interesting and innovative,
opening avenues for future research. The conclusions are appropriate for the
results. I have only two small concerns:
1) The authors describe, in their methods, that animals were housed in"enriched"
tanks. How was enrichment made? By adding natural or artificial plants? By adding
refuges? Etc. Please include this information (as briefly or as long as needed) in that
section
> More detailed information regarding environmental enrichment and other
experimental procedures has been added from the Supplementary Material to
the Methods section in the main text in order to make the text more clear.
2) While the authors do follow the journal recommendations regarding data
availability, they used custom Matlab scripts, which could be potentially useful in
reanalyzing the data or reproducing the experiments; I suggest that the authors also
add these scripts as supplementary information. I'd also recommend setting up a git
repository for the script, since software is especially mutable with time as
researchers change it to better suit their purposes; using a repository that is
regularly updated (as opposed to a static file on this journal's servers), authors
could provide readers with updates to the protocol. The authors can easily set up a
repository following these two tutorials:http://nyuccl.org/pages/gittutorial/
>https://github.com/blog/1840-improving-github-for-science
> We agree and support the practice suggested by the reviewer. We have setup
a GitHub repository where we now placed ours scripts’ source codes, tutorial
and a test video sample. We will continue to add/update it as soon we can
make them available. We now included the reference to this freely available
repository link in the Data Accessibility section in the text.
Society Open
