Atomic scale modelling of hexagonal structured metallic
fission product alloys
S. C. Middleburgh, D. M. King and G. R. Lumpkin
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140292.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140292
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 September 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 February 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 March 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140292.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
It is an interesting paper that is technologically important and scientifically sound. Figs and
language can be further improved. Also a few recent references on these issues should be added
in the introduction including:
Chroneos, A.; Rushton, M. J. D.; Jiang, C.; et al. JOURNAL OF NUCLEAR MATERIALS Volume:
441 Issue: 1-3 Pages: 29-39 Published: OCT 2013
Wang, H.; Chroneos, A.; Jiang, C.; et al. PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY CHEMICAL PHYSICS
Volume: 15 Issue: 20 Pages: 7599-7603 Published: 2013
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
None
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript presents a first -principles study of the phase stability and defect properties in
hcp Mo-Pd-Rh-Ru-Tc system. This work can provide potentially useful information for the
nuclear fuel community. I would recommend to address the following comments.
(1) More details about the DFT calculations should be provided in the methodology part. The
valence electrons for each elements should be provided. A convergence test of energy cutoff and
kpoint sampling should be provided.
(2) The criterion for structural optimization is not high. Large internal pressure and force on
atoms after relation would be expected. Please provide such information.
(3) A more traditional approach to generate random structure for alloy is special quasi-random
structure (SQS) method. A comparison to the results from SQS is recommended.
3
(4) The vacancy formation energy of elements in the alloy can be site-dependent. I would suggest
provide a systematic test for one composition of Mo, such as 25.9%.
(5) In equation 8, the reference state for oxygen atom should be provided.
(6) For small sized fission products, it would be meaningful to investigate the solution energy in
the interstitial sites.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140292)
29-Jan-2015
Dear Dr Middleburgh,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Atomic Scale Modelling of Hexagonal Structured
Metallic Fission Product Alloys") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 21-Feb-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
4
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140292.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
5
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
none
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Accept in the current form
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140292.R1)
04-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Middleburgh,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Atomic Scale Modelling of Hexagonal
Structured Metallic Fission Product Alloys" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
6
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
changes in red within the manuscript. We would like to thank the reviewers for their thorough
evaluations and we now believe the manuscript is improved as a result of this input.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
t is an interesting paper that is technologically important and scientifically sound. Figs and language
can be further improved.
We would like to thank the first reviewer for their very positive review. We have made the small
mprovements suggested by the reviewer.
Also a few recent references on these issues should be added in the introduction including:
- Chroneos, A.; Rushton, M. J. D.; Jiang, C.; et al. JOURNAL OF NUCLEAR MATERIALS Volume:
441 Issue: 1-3 Pages: 29-39 Published: OCT 2013
- Wang, H.; Chroneos, A.; Jiang, C.; et al. PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY CHEMICAL PHYSICS Volume:
15 Issue: 20 Pages: 7599-7603 Published: 2013
We have now added the two suggested references, which also helps with the 3rd point that was
given in the 2nd reviewer’s appraisal.
Reviewer: 2
This manuscript presents a first -principles study of the phase stability and defect properties in hcp
Mo-Pd-Rh-Ru-Tc system. This work can provide potentially useful information for the nuclear fuel
community. I would recommend to address the following comments.
Again we would like to thank the reviewer for their positive comments on the manuscript.
(1) More details about the DFT calculations should be provided in the methodology part. The
valence electrons for each elements should be provided. A convergence test of energy cutoff
and kpoint sampling should be provided.
We have now added a great deal more detail to the methodology as requested and the
convergence testing that we carried out is now added too.
(2) The criterion for structural optimization is not high. Large internal pressure and force on
atoms after relation would be expected. Please provide such information.
We agree the tolerance is set to a medium-high level rather than a ‘high level’. This was
done to aid the high throughput method. Saying this, the forces obtained were suitably
low +/- 0.005 eV/Å for the total system to be well within the error of the method. We
have now added a section to the method stating this.
(3) A more traditional approach to generate random structure for alloy is special quasi-random
structure (SQS) method. A comparison to the results from SQS is recommended.
Past work compared the SQS method with the current method with very promising
results. We know that the SQS method cannot simulate a truly random structure (hence
quasi-random) so although useful for some disordered systems, it is not adequate for
highly randomised solid solutions. We now discuss this in the text.
(4) The vacancy formation energy of elements in the alloy can be site-dependent. I would
suggest provide a systematic test for one composition of Mo, such as 25.9%.
I think rather than being site dependent (as there is only one symmetrically distinct site in
the HCP structure), the vacancy formation energy or defect energy may be dependent on
the chemistry of the nearest neighbour sites (i.e. what atoms occupy these sites). Each site
is coordinated by 12 atoms (assuming ideal packing). If all of the potential combinations of
5 elements surrounding the vacancy were probed, many hundreds of calculations would
interesting comment is taken on board and now we note in the manuscript the potential
for the vacancy formation energy to vary with nearest neighbour chemistry saying that
this would be a good subject for a future study using empirical atomic potentials (aiding
the huge number of calculations required).
(5) In equation 8, the reference state for oxygen atom should be provided.
We agree and this has now been provided as the reference to Itikawa et al.
(6) For small sized fission products, it would be meaningful to investigate the solution energy in
the interstitial sites.
We agree. For future studies that investigate smaller extrinsic elements such as H, Be and
He, interstitial sites will have to be considered. We now mention this in our conclusion
section along with a reference to an article highlighting the interstitial sites that should be
considered. For information: the metallic radii of the intrinsic atoms are: Mo 139pm, Pd
137pm, Rh 134pm, Ru 134pm and Tc 136pm. The metallic extrinsic radii are: Ag 144pm, Cd
151pm, Cs 265pm. The extrinsic metalloid covalent radii: Sn 132pm and Te 121pm. Ionic
iodine has a radius of 220pm or a covalent bond of ~125pm. Xe and Kr have van der Walls
radii of 216pm and 202pm, respectively. These radii are all similar (or much greater than)
the intrinsic species and as such we decided not to consider interstitial defect populations.
This is now discussed in the text.
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
There are no comments.)
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
There are no comments.)
Society Open
