New stopping criteria for iterative root finding
Jorgen L. Nikolajsen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140206.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140206
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140206.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The author states that a "numerical implementation of the JLN stopping criterion is available
from the author on request." It would be best if some form of this implementation was included
in the supporting data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper provides new stopping criterion for iterative root finding. The only comments that I
have would suggest the author to carefully review Section 2 to improve the readability and
presentation. For example, on page 2, around line 52: "W must be equal to 0.01 [when] f(z) is
transcendental" (i.e., insert when). Also, on page 4, around line 12-15: considering using a symbol
rather than "eps" for a small number.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Beny Neta)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper is excellent and acceptable for publication. My only comments are: 1. Figure 6.3
appears after the last figure. 2. Figure A.1 is not labeled 3. page 2 lines7-8 from bottom: the period
should be on line -8 and not left alone on line -7.
label_version_2
RSOS-140206.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
Many thanks to both reviewers for their time and for their helpful comments.
Reviewer 1:
1. Figure 6.3 is now inserted correctly.
2. Figure A1 is now labelled.
3. The location of the 'period' has been corrected.
Reviewer 2:
1. Section 2 has been carefully reviewed for readability.
2. The missing "when" has been inserted.
3. "eps" has been replaced by "e subscript 0". Jorgen Nikolajsen
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter
11-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Nikolajsen
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140206 entitled
"New Stopping Criteria for Iterative Root Finding" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments below. The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended
publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to
respond to the comments and revise your manuscript. Because the schedule for publication is
very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the revised version of your manuscript
within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know
immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre. When submitting your revised
manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a file
"Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes
you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. When uploading
your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
