Clawed forelimbs allow northern seals to eat like their
ancient ancestors
David P. Hocking, Felix G. Marx, Renae Sattler, Robert N. Harris, Tahlia I. Pollock, Karina
J. Sorrell, Erich M. G. Fitzgerald, Matthew R. McCurry and Alistair R. Evans
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172393.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172393
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 13 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172393.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I think the anatomical and behavioural observations presented here are splendidly visualized and
carefully detailed, and will represent a fantastic addition to the literature. I only recommend a
couple minor revisions, primarily stylistic.
In the results section, a few points of discussion are raised, including in lines 113, 126-128, 158,
and 171-173, which may be more appropriately placed in the discussion section.
The paper paints a dichotomy between otariids and phocines, but I think this paper could bear
greater significance with a very brief mention of the general forelimb morphology of monachines,
and the possible implications for the (presumed) shared morphologies between monachines and
otarioids.
In Table S2, the columns headings are confusing (are they of different widths?)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Yoshimasa Tanaka)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript describes how to seals hold and eat prey, and suggests that the early pinnipeds
fed like modern seals. The description is clear. Provided good movie, illustrations and figures
made the argument strong.
As such, this work is certainly worth publishing in Royal Society Open Science.
3
My only concern is no-mention of one of three pinniped families, Odobenidae (walruses). If put
walruses information into the figure 2, the work will be completed. This is not essential, but
might be important.
Sincerely
Yoshihiro TANAKA
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172393)
23-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Hocking
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172393 entitled
"Clawed forelimbs allow northern seals to eat like their ancient ancestors" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172393
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
4
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 04-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Emily Standen (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Professor Emily Standen):
Dear David Hocking,
The reviews for your manuscript describing the eating habits of ancient seal ancestors are in and
are notably positive. I am in agreement with the comments of the reviewers and would like to
6
see each of the short reviews fully addressed. I agree with both reviewers that the addition of
information on a wider phylogeny would be beneficial to your readers.
We look forward to seeing your edits.
Sincerely,
Emily Standen
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I think the anatomical and behavioural observations presented here are splendidly visualized and
carefully detailed, and will represent a fantastic addition to the literature. I only recommend a
couple minor revisions, primarily stylistic.
In the results section, a few points of discussion are raised, including in lines 113, 126-128, 158,
and 171-173, which may be more appropriately placed in the discussion section.
The paper paints a dichotomy between otariids and phocines, but I think this paper could bear
greater significance with a very brief mention of the general forelimb morphology of monachines,
and the possible implications for the (presumed) shared morphologies between monachines and
otarioids.
In Table S2, the columns headings are confusing (are they of different widths?)
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This manuscript describes how to seals hold and eat prey, and suggests that the early pinnipeds
fed like modern seals. The description is clear. Provided good movie, illustrations and figures
made the argument strong.
As such, this work is certainly worth publishing in Royal Society Open Science.
My only concern is no-mention of one of three pinniped families, Odobenidae (walruses). If put
walruses information into the figure 2, the work will be completed. This is not essential, but
might be important.
Sincerely
Yoshihiro TANAKA
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172393)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172393.R1)
13-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Hocking,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Clawed forelimbs allow northern seals
to eat like their ancient ancestors" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Response to Referees
Associate Editor
Comment 1:
The reviews for your manuscript describing the eating habits of ancient seal ancestors are in and are
notably positive. I am in agreement with the comments of the reviewers and would like to see each
of the short reviews fully addressed. I agree with both reviewers that the addition of information on
a wider phylogeny would be beneficial to your readers.
Author’s Response:
Thank you for the extremely favourable assessment of our manuscript.
We agree that adding some additional discussion that places these results within a wider phylogenetic
context is useful and so have added two new paragraphs in the discussion to address the points raised
by both referees (see below). However, we have decided not to add additional species to the
phylogenetic tree in Figure 2 because these discussion points are somewhat tangential to the main
contention of our article, which is that ancient seals share similar anatomy to phocine seals and so likely
fed in a similar way. The anatomy and behaviour of walrus and southern phocids has little bearing on
this point, and so we feed it would be a distraction away from our main argument if added to the figures.
Referee 1
Comment 2:
In the results section, a few points of discussion are raised, including in lines 113, 126-128, 158, and
171-173, which may be more appropriately placed in the discussion section.
Author’s Response:
We disagree that these four points should be moved from the results and feel that they help to add clarity
to our arguments by making this section easier to follow.
The first two points both describe results that are clearly illustrated in figures 1 and 2, and so we think
are perfectly appropriate to maintain in the results section:
“The anatomy of the phocine paw is less derived than the otariid flipper: otariid forelimb digits are
integrated to form a stiff, wing-like flipper, whereas phocine digits are distinct and mobile (Figure
1a-b).”
“These features are typical of terrestrial carnivorans (e.g., the wolverine Gulo gulo), and so likely
represent the ancestral condition inherited by the earliest pinnipeds from their last obligate
terrestrial ancestors (Figure 2b).”
The second two points are more minor, but do not fit into the broader arguments presented in the
discussion section. Rather than removing them completely, we think they are better left in the results
section:
“Processing performance appeared to depend on individual levels of experience.”
“This difference may be related to the age and size of the individuals, with the harbour
seals being larger (Table S1) and hence presumably able to swallow bigger pieces of prey.”
Comment 3:
The paper paints a dichotomy between otariids and phocines, but I think this paper could bear greater
significance with a very brief mention of the general forelimb morphology of monachines, and the
possible implications for the (presumed) shared morphologies between monachines and otarioids.
Author’s Response:
To address this point, we have added an additional short section discussing the similarities in behaviour
and anatomy between monachines and otarioids:
“Fur seals and sea lions with flipper-like forelimbs instead usually grip prey in their teeth
before shaking or thrashing their food at the water’s surface [8, 9]. This behaviour is also
used by some southern phocids (monchines) including leopard seals (Hydrurga leptonyx)
and Weddell seals (Leptonychotes weddellii) [31, 32]. Interestingly, monachines appear to
be converging on otariid-like forelimb morphology, which may explain why they no longer
use their reduced claws to secure prey during processing [33].”
We have refrained from going further into this discussion here, because we also have a new manuscript
currently in preparation directly addressing the question of convergence in morphology and behaviour
between otariids and monachine seals. We hope to submit this new manuscript in the coming months,
so more discussion on this question will be available very soon.
Comment 4:
In Table S2, the columns headings are confusing (are they of different widths?)
Author’s Response:
Thank you for picking up on this. It appears to be a formatting error that was introduced when I
converted the Word document to build the PDF. I have re-formatted that table and re-exported the PDF
which now looks ok.
Referee 2
Comment 5:
This manuscript describes how to seals hold and eat prey, and suggests that the early pinnipeds fed
like modern seals. The description is clear. Provided good movie, illustrations and figures made the
argument strong. As such, this work is certainly worth publishing in Royal Society Open Science.
My only concern is no-mention of one of three pinniped families, Odobenidae (walruses). If put
walruses information into the figure 2, the work will be completed. This is not essential, but might
be important.
Author’s Response:
To address this point, we have added an additional paragraph discussing the anatomy and behaviour of
walruses:
“In addition to otariids and monachines, this trend towards increasing aquatic specialisation of the
forelimb is also present walruses (Odobenus rosmarus) the sole surviving member of the pinniped
family Odobenidae. Like otariids, walruses have reduced claws and cartilage extending each of
their digits [34]. Walruses use their broad flippers to push water, both during swimming and,
somewhat surprisingly, to fan sediment-free water in front of their faces to help them see the seafloor
while searching for buried shellfish [35, 36]. Species with flipper-like forelimbs may still be able to
hold prey by squeezing it between their flat palms [e.g., 9, 37], but this is likely a less effective way
to secure prey compared to the phocine method of gripping and piercing prey using strong claws.”
As mentioned above, we have decided not to include walrus in Figure 2 to avoid adding complications
that do not directly relate to the question of how the earliest seals likely fed.
Additional changes
In addition to the changes suggested by the referees, we have also added an additional funder at the end
of the article, and we fixed a minor error in the caption of Figure 3 where a photo of a grey seal was
miss-labelled as being of a harbour seal.
Society Open
