Optimal localization of diffusion sources in complex
networks
Zhao-Long Hu, Xiao Han, Ying-Cheng Lai and Wen-Xu Wang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170091.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170091
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 June 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 8 February 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 14 March 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 14 March 2017
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160393.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear from reading the paper where to access data. The supplementary material is
appropriate and clearly written.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper "Optimal Localization of Diffusion Sources in Complex Networks" by Zhao-Long Hu
et al. is a good contribution to the current research on inference problems in dynamical systems
on networks. Their focus is source location in linear (diffusive) dynamical systems. In the main
text, the Authors consider discrete-time dynamics, while a similar method for continuous-time
dynamics is discussed in the supplementary material. The core of the method consists in a two-
step process:
1) use Kalman's observability theory to identify a minimal set of nodes (messengers) to observe in
order to reconstruct the initial state of the system. This calculation is cumbersome, but the
Authors propose an efficient (though approximated) algorithm that seems to work well in the
cases under study. Still, identification of the initial state requires at least N observations.
2) use compressed sensing to reduce this number to some M<N when the initial condition is
sparse (few sources).
The method is pretty general for linear dynamical systems and reasonably efficient (considering
the two step process). The manuscript is well written and both methods and results are discussed
in detail with clarifying examples. In summary, I recommend the paper for publication, after that
the following points are addressed by the Authors, and the paper accordingly modified.
1. The parameter beta seems to play no role in the source localization. The mathematical reason is
clear from the explanation in the supplementary material, although I'm not sure it has no effect
on the second step of the process, the compressed sensing analysis. A large beta will produce a
much faster diffusion, therefore I wonder whether this affect the detection of t_0 by CS and the
AUROC values. Please, add some result on this in the paper to verify that beta does not really
play any role.
2. If I understood correctly, the efficient algorithm based on Eq. 6 is useful to compute N_m but it
is not applied in the identification of messenger nodes, where in sec. 2.5 the exact rank condition
is employed. From this section, and from section 5.3) is however not clear the computational
complexity of this part, i.e. the identification of messengers.
3. Consider the same process, for which two or more different set of messengers are identified (as
explained at the end of section 2.5), I expect that the different choices of messenger nodes have
the same power in detecting the origin of the process (by CS). Is it possible to verify that from
your results?
4. For sparse initial conditions, a number M << N of observations is sufficient to correctly
reconstruct the sources. Apart from results from theoretical works (Tao and Candes), is it possible
to say something more on the scaling of M with N on random graphs?
Do the computational result suggest some polynomial/logarithmic dependence in N? Is there an
influence by beta on M?
5. In the section 5.3 the computational complexity of the current method is compared with that of
Belief and Inverse Propagation methods. However, these methods have been conceived for
rather different inference problems. In particular, BP is applied to non-linear epidemic processes,
with a single-time observation snapshot. On the other hand, it would be interesting to compare
the results of the present method with those obtained using the ML estimator proposed by Pinto
et al.
Did you try to compare your method to any other method in the literature with which the same
problem could be addressed?
3
7. I did not completely understand the continuous-time case discussed in the supplementary
material. While I agree that the "observability" part is pretty much identical to the discrete case,
when considering source localization the "exact" temporal location of t_0 seems much more
difficult (if not impossible) for a continuous-time variable than for a discrete-time one. Please,
could you discuss this aspect more in detail in the supplementary material?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Data is not really needed here.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper studies the observability a linear time-invariant dynamical system whose state and
output equations are given (1) and (2). Such a system is observable if there exists a finite time T
such that the output in the time interval [0, T] determines the initial state x(0) of the system. The
necessary and sufficient condition for observability boils down to verify if the observability
matrix of the system is of full rank. Clearly, if T is large enough, having all observations taken by
one single "messenger node" per connected component of the graph is sufficient if T is large
enough, as computed in Sec 5.2 when the matrix if of full rank. Given this linear model, the result
is not counter-intuitive as claimed in Section 4. On the contrary, it is quite obvious from linear
algebra and linear systems theory.
However, the linear model given (1) and (2) is not an epidemic model. In the linear model given
(1) and (2), the state variables x_i (whose meaning is not defined by the authors) can take any real
value, whereas in an epidemic model, the state variables take a limited set of values, such as 0 for
a healthy node and 1 for an infected node. They could represent at a larger scale the proportion of
individuals that are healthy or recovered, but would remain confined in a finite interval. All
epidemic models (e.g. SI, SIR, SIS) are strongly nonlinear, which makes the observability of the
initial state much more complex. For the same reason, the comparison of the results in the paper
with related work are flawed, because the models are completely different. The authors briefly
allude to the misfit of a linear model for nonlinear diffusion processes in Sec S9 at end of the
supplementary material. As the state variables take any real values, they could be negative,
which the authors hope will not happen by imposing a condition (S35). But they do not prove
that (S35) makes the states non negative (this condition appears flawed as well, as the right hand
side of (S35) depends on i, whereas the left hand side \beta does not depend on i!). And even if
4
the states were only positive, the system would not model an epidemic (the state variable could
still take any unbounded positive, real value).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160393)
13-Jan-2017
Dear Professor Wang:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160393 entitled "Optimal Localization of Diffusion Sources in Complex
Networks" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The
comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 13-Jul-2017. If you are unable to submit by
this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Mark Chaplain
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
I agree with both reviewers that the model treated is a linear one whereas the motivation is
epidemic modelling. There is a mismatch here. Reviewer 2 sees this as a fatal flaw. Reviewer 1
does not. I think this discrepancy could be addressed by saying as a first step to locating sources
of infection in epidemic models, this paper locates sources for a linear diffusion problem. Also it
could be mentioned that epidemics may be treated as linear in the early stages if the network
5
connectivity is high, but as Reviewer 2 points out, one has to map discrete variables to continuous
ones.
I agree with Reviewer 2 that the sufficiency of a single messenger node is not counter-intuitive. So
I think “counter-intuitive” has to be removed. Yet with noise (dynamic and measurement) it is
not clear if the statement would still hold. The results seem to indicate that it does, at least in the
regimes tested. One could presumably make counterexamples by observing miles away from the
source and thereby failing to detect the source at all.
Reviewer 1 identifies a number of places where improvement is desirable, and some of these are
echoed by reviewer 2. I have one further comment: if the data comes from an initial condition of
the stated form, then going back one step in time will produce a negative value somewhere. Why
not use this as the test for t_0?
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The paper "Optimal Localization of Diffusion Sources in Complex Networks" by Zhao-Long Hu
et al. is a good contribution to the current research on inference problems in dynamical systems
on networks. Their focus is source location in linear (diffusive) dynamical systems. In the main
text, the Authors consider discrete-time dynamics, while a similar method for continuous-time
dynamics is discussed in the supplementary material. The core of the method consists in a two-
step process:
1) use Kalman's observability theory to identify a minimal set of nodes (messengers) to observe in
order to reconstruct the initial state of the system. This calculation is cumbersome, but the
Authors propose an efficient (though approximated) algorithm that seems to work well in the
cases under study. Still, identification of the initial state requires at least N observations.
2) use compressed sensing to reduce this number to some M<N when the initial condition is
sparse (few sources).
The method is pretty general for linear dynamical systems and reasonably efficient (considering
the two step process). The manuscript is well written and both methods and results are discussed
in detail with clarifying examples. In summary, I recommend the paper for publication, after that
the following points are addressed by the Authors, and the paper accordingly modified.
1. The parameter beta seems to play no role in the source localization. The mathematical reason is
clear from the explanation in the supplementary material, although I'm not sure it has no effect
on the second step of the process, the compressed sensing analysis. A large beta will produce a
much faster diffusion, therefore I wonder whether this affect the detection of t_0 by CS and the
AUROC values. Please, add some result on this in the paper to verify that beta does not really
play any role.
2. If I understood correctly, the efficient algorithm based on Eq. 6 is useful to compute N_m but it
is not applied in the identification of messenger nodes, where in sec. 2.5 the exact rank condition
is employed. From this section, and from section 5.3) is however not clear the computational
complexity of this part, i.e. the identification of messengers.
3. Consider the same process, for which two or more different set of messengers are identified (as
explained at the end of section 2.5), I expect that the different choices of messenger nodes have
the same power in detecting the origin of the process (by CS). Is it possible to verify that from
your results?
6
4. For sparse initial conditions, a number M << N of observations is sufficient to correctly
reconstruct the sources. Apart from results from theoretical works (Tao and Candes), is it possible
to say something more on the scaling of M with N on random graphs?
Do the computational result suggest some polynomial/logarithmic dependence in N? Is there an
influence by beta on M?
5. In the section 5.3 the computational complexity of the current method is compared with that of
Belief and Inverse Propagation methods. However, these methods have been conceived for
rather different inference problems. In particular, BP is applied to non-linear epidemic processes,
with a single-time observation snapshot. On the other hand, it would be interesting to compare
the results of the present method with those obtained using the ML estimator proposed by Pinto
et al.
Did you try to compare your method to any other method in the literature with which the same
problem could be addressed?
7. I did not completely understand the continuous-time case discussed in the supplementary
material. While I agree that the "observability" part is pretty much identical to the discrete case,
when considering source localization the "exact" temporal location of t_0 seems much more
difficult (if not impossible) for a continuous-time variable than for a discrete-time one. Please,
could you discuss this aspect more in detail in the supplementary material?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The paper studies the observability a linear time-invariant dynamical system whose state and
output equations are given (1) and (2). Such a system is observable if there exists a finite time T
such that the output in the time interval [0, T] determines the initial state x(0) of the system. The
necessary and sufficient condition for observability boils down to verify if the observability
matrix of the system is of full rank. Clearly, if T is large enough, having all observations taken by
one single "messenger node" per connected component of the graph is sufficient if T is large
enough, as computed in Sec 5.2 when the matrix if of full rank. Given this linear model, the result
is not counter-intuitive as claimed in Section 4. On the contrary, it is quite obvious from linear
algebra and linear systems theory.
However, the linear model given (1) and (2) is not an epidemic model. In the linear model given
(1) and (2), the state variables x_i (whose meaning is not defined by the authors) can take any real
value, whereas in an epidemic model, the state variables take a limited set of values, such as 0 for
a healthy node and 1 for an infected node. They could represent at a larger scale the proportion of
individuals that are healthy or recovered, but would remain confined in a finite interval. All
epidemic models (e.g. SI, SIR, SIS) are strongly nonlinear, which makes the observability of the
initial state much more complex. For the same reason, the comparison of the results in the paper
with related work are flawed, because the models are completely different. The authors briefly
allude to the misfit of a linear model for nonlinear diffusion processes in Sec S9 at end of the
supplementary material. As the state variables take any real values, they could be negative,
which the authors hope will not happen by imposing a condition (S35). But they do not prove
that (S35) makes the states non negative (this condition appears flawed as well, as the right hand
side of (S35) depends on i, whereas the left hand side \beta does not depend on i!). And even if
the states were only positive, the system would not model an epidemic (the state variable could
still take any unbounded positive, real value).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160393)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170091)
08-Mar-2017
Dear Professor Wang
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170091 entitled
"Optimal Localization of Diffusion Sources in Complex Networks" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
editor's suggestions.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170091
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
8
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 17-Mar-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
9
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author :
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_6
The only further thing I would suggest is that the authors add thanks to the reviewers (and the
associate editor) for their helpful comments. In particular, I think the suggestion of the
alternative method to determine t_0 is an important addition.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170091.R1)
14-Mar-2017
Dear Professor Wang,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Optimal Localization of Diffusion
Sources in Complex Networks" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Response to the comments of Reviewer 1
-----------------------------------------------------------------
We would like to take the opportunity to thank the review for his/her time and effort
in reviewing our paper. The reviewer stated that "The paper is a good contribution to
the current research on inference problems in dynamical systems on networks. The
method is pretty general for linear dynamical systems and reasonably efficient
(considering the two step process). The manuscript is well written and both methods
and results are discussed in detail with clarifying examples.” The reviewer
recommend our paper for publication, while some comments should be addressed,
including effect of diffusion parameter, computation complexity for identifying
messenger nodes, relationship between data amount and network size, comparison
with existent methods, how to infer initial time for continuous dynamics, and etc.. We
have revised our manuscript to implement all the pertinent and insightful comments
and suggestions. Presented below is a point-to-point response to all the comments and
suggestions.
Comment 1: The parameter beta seems to play no role in the source localization.
The mathematical reason is clear from the explanation in the supplementary
material, although I'm not sure it has no effect on the second step of the process,
the compressed sensing analysis. A large beta will produce a much faster diffusion,
therefore I wonder whether this affect the detection of t_0 by CS and the AUROC
values. Please, add some result on this in the paper to verify that beta does not
really play any role.
Response: We thank for this valuable comment. The speculation that the value of ß
will affect the accuracy of actual localization of sources is absolutely correct. As the
referee mentioned, a larger value of ß will produce faster diffusion, such that affect
the value of AUROC. We have obtained results for different values of ß and added
description and explanations for the results, as shown in the Supplementary Material
S10 and Fig. S7. Details in the revised Supplementary Material S10 are as follows:
Comment 2: If I understood correctly, the efficient algorithm based on Eq. 6 is useful
to compute N_m but it is not applied in the identification of messenger nodes,
where in sec. 2.5 the exact rank condition is employed. From this section, and from
identification of messengers.
Response: We thank for this valuable comment. Indeed, the referee is correct that Eq.
(6) is useful to compute Nm , but is not applied to identify messenger nodes. We have
added the computational complexity of identifying messenger nodes via computing
matrix rank. Please see Section 2.5 on page 10.
The computation complexity of matrix rank as well as eigenvalues is O(N3 ) by SVD,
and the one is O(N2.376 ) by LU decomposition, which have been added to the revised
manuscript (below Eq. (6) on page 6). The computation complexity of elementary
transformation is O(N2 (logN)2 ). Thus, the computation complexity of identification
of messengers is approximately O(N2 (logN)2 ). The description of the computation
complexity has been added to the revised manuscript (Section 2.5 on page 10).
Comment 3: Consider the same process, for which two or more different set of
messengers are identified (as explained at the end of section 2.5), I expect that the
different choices of messenger nodes have the same power in detecting the origin of
the process (by CS). Is it possible to verify that from your results?
Response: We thank for this valuable comment. We have tested the results from
using different choices of messenger nodes and found that different choices have little
influence to the localization accuracy.
Specifically, we have added the result of detecting sources by CS for different choices
of messenger nodes in the revised Supplementary Materials S8, Fig. S4. From our
framework of sources localization, in random weighted SF networks, any single
messenger node can guarantee the network is observable. Without loss of generality,
we choose a node, e.g., number 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 to be the messenger,
respectively. Figure S4 shows that different choices of messenger nodes produce
similar accuracy in detecting the sources and the initial time t 0 . Detailed description
can be seen in Supplementary Materials S8, as follows:
Comment 4: For sparse initial conditions, a number M << N of observations is
sufficient to correctly reconstruct the sources. Apart from results from theoretical
works (Tao and Candes), is it possible to say something more on the scaling of M
with N on random graphs? Do the computational result suggest some
polynomial/logarithmic dependence in N? Is there an influence by beta on M?
Response: We thank for this valuable comment. In the revised manuscript, we study
the dependence of observations on the network size. Detailed description and results
are shown in the revised Supplementary Materials S8 and Fig. S5, see below.
In addition, from Fig. S8 and Fig. S9 in Supplementary Material, we can see that
the diffusion parameter ß has little influence on M of sources localization.
Comment 5: In the section 5.3 the computational complexity of the current method
is compared with that of Belief and Inverse Propagation methods. However, these
methods have been conceived for rather different inference problems. In particular,
BP is applied to non-linear epidemic processes, with a single-time observation
snapshot. On the other hand, it would be interesting to compare the results of the
present method with those obtained using the ML estimator proposed by Pinto et al.
Did you try to compare your method to any other method in the literature with
which the same problem could be addressed?
Response: We thank for this valuable comment. We agree with this comment. Indeed,
the comparison of computation complexity between our method and the other works
is not appropriate, because of the significant difference among them. Thus, in the
revised manuscript, in section 5.3 in the main text, we have removed relevant
sentences.
We totally agree with the reviewer that it would be interesting to compare the
results of the present method with those obtained using the ML estimator proposed by
Pinto et al. However, it is still not easy to make an unbiased comparison. The
diffusion dynamics, observation, the required number of messenger nodes and the
number of to be localized sources are all different between Pinto et al.’s work and
ours. Therefore, to avoid any possibly offensive remarks, it’s better for us to not make
comparison with other existent methods.
Comment 6: I did not completely understand the continuous-time case discussed in
the supplementary material. While I agree that the "observability" part is pretty
much identical to the discrete case, when considering source localization the "exact"
temporal location of t_0 seems much more difficult (if not impossible) for a
aspect more in detail in the supplementary material?
Response: We thank for this valuable comment. Note that for discrete-time dynamics,
we can accurately detect t 0 . For continuous-time dynamics, by setting a small time
interval T, we can recover the state <U+0001D431>(t) at any time t, analogous to that of the
discrete-time dynamics in section 5.2 in the main text. However, in this case, it is not
able to infer the exact value of t 0 . Instead, a very narrow range t1 <U+2208> [t 0 - <U+03F5>, t 0 + <U+03F5>]
can be inferred, where <U+03F5> is a very small positive number.
Specifically, let t ini denote the initial observation time. Based on Eq. (S8), we have
y(t ini ) C
y(t ini + T) ßLT
( ) = ( Ce ) <U+0001D431>(t ini ),
<U+22EE> <U+22EE>
y(t ini + (N - 1)T) Ce(N-1)ßLT
y(t ini ) CeßLT
y(t ini + T) 2ßLT
( ) = ( Ce ) <U+0001D431>(t ini - T)
<U+22EE> <U+22EE>
y(t ini + (N - 1)T) CeNßLT
<U+22EE>
y(t ini ) '
Ce(tini-t0)ßLT
y(t ini + T) (1+t -t' )ßLT
( ) = ( Ce ini 0 ) <U+0001D431>(t '0 ).
<U+22EE> <U+22EE>
y(t ini + (N - 1)T) '
Ce(N-1+tini-t0 )ßLT
We need to reconstruct a series of states, i.e., <U+0001D431>(t ini ), <U+0001D431>(t ini - T), <U+22EF> , <U+0001D431>(t '0 ) to ensure
that the actual t 0 lies in between t ini and t '0 . Then we choose the sparsest state, say
<U+0001D431>(t1 ), which is identified as the initial state and t1 is the initial time t 0 .
A detailed discussion has been presented in the revised Supplementary Material S2.
Summary: We again thank the reviewer for his/her valuable and insightful comments
and suggestions, which greatly help us to improve our manuscript. We believe our
revised manuscript becomes more scientifically sound and of interest to the readers of
Royal Society Open Science. We hope our revised manuscript can be judged to have
met the high standard of Royal Society Open Science. We again thank the reviewer
for his/her time and effort in reviewing our manuscript and providing pertinent
comments.
Response to the comments of Reviewer 2
---------------------------------------------------------
We would like to take the opportunity to thank the reviewer for his/her time and effort
in reviewing our manuscript. The reviewer raised some pertinent comments and
suggestions about if a single messenger node is counter-intuitive, the mismatch of our
motivation and the meaning of the dynamical model, inappropriate comparison of our
results with related work, the missing of a proof for the bounds of node states. In the
revised version, we have implemented all the pertinent and insightful comments and
suggestions. Presented below is a point-to-point response to all the comments and
suggestions.
Comment 1: Given this linear model, the result is not counter-intuitive as claimed in
Section 4. On the contrary, it is quite obvious from linear algebra and linear systems
theory.
Response: We thank for this valuable comment and we agree with this comment. In
the revised manuscript, “counter-intuitive” has been removed.
Comment 2: However, the linear model given (1) and (2) is not an epidemic model.
In the linear model given (1) and (2), the state variables x_i (whose meaning is not
defined by the authors) can take any real value, whereas in an epidemic model, the
state variables take a limited set of values, such as 0 for a healthy node and 1 for an
infected node. They could represent at a larger scale the proportion of individuals
that are healthy or recovered, but would remain confined in a finite interval. All
epidemic models (e.g. SI, SIR, SIS) are strongly nonlinear, which makes the
observability of the initial state much more complex. For the same reason, the
comparison of the results in the paper with related work are flawed, because the
models are completely different. The authors briefly allude to the misfit of a linear
model for nonlinear diffusion processes in Sec S9 at end of the supplementary
material. As the state variables take any real values, they could be negative, which
the authors hope will not happen by imposing a condition (S35). But they do not
prove that (S35) makes the states non negative (this condition appears flawed as
well, as the right hand side of (S35) depends on i, whereas the left hand side \beta
does not depend on i!). And even if the states were only positive, the system would
not model an epidemic (the state variable could still take any unbounded positive,
real value).
Response: We thank for the valuable comments. The model given in Eq. (1) is a
linear model, which indeed differs from standard epidemic spreading models, which
editor also suggested that epidemics may be treated as linear in the early stages if the
network connectivity is high. We agree with the referee and the associate editor’s
comments and suggestions. Thus, we removed the incorrect comparison with related
work, solved the mismatch problem in the revised manuscript and supplementary
materials and proved the bounds of node states for capturing density.
In the revised manuscript, we have explained the physical meaning of variable xi
below Eq. (1):
“This equation constitutes a good approximation for different types of linear diffusion
processes and the linearization of some nonlinear diffusion processes [25]. Variable
xi (t) that denotes the state of node i at time t captures the fraction of infected
individuals, the concentration of water or air pollutant and etc. at place i.”
Besides, in the introduction, we have added some description about diffusion
processes and the importance of source localization:
“Dynamical processes taking place in complex networks are ubiquitous in natural and
in technological systems [1], examples of which include disease or epidemic
spreading in the human society [2, 3], virus invasion in computer and mobile phone
networks [4, 5], behavior propagation in online social networks [6], and air or water
pollution diffusion [7, 8]. Once an epidemic or environmental pollution emerges, it is
often of great interest to be able to identify its source with-in the network accurately
and quickly so that proper control strategies can be devised to contain or even to
eliminate the spreading process.”
Indeed, as pointed out by the referee, our model, with respect to the required
conditions and methodology, is quite different from other related works, such that it is
not appropriate to make a comparison. Therefore, in section 5.3 in the main text of the
revised manuscript, the comparison of the computation complexity with other related
works has been removed from the revised manuscript.
The model used our manuscript indeed is a linear diffusion model, which differs
from the standard epidemic model, such as SI, SIS, SIRS, and etc. However, as
suggested by the associate editor, the diffusion model can still model many types of
linear diffusion processes and the linearization or linear approximation of many
nonlinear diffusion processes. For example, epidemics may be treated as linear in the
early stages. In this regard, it is also inappropriate to make a comparison with other
work considering the problem of source localization associated with SI, SIS or SIRS
dynamics. Thus, we totally agree with the referee’s comment and removed relevant
comparison.
However, even for linear diffusion processes, as pointed out by the referee, it is
required is that the state of every node should be confined in the range [0,1], such that
the state of a node is able to represent the fraction of infected individuals, the
diffusion, the value of the diffusion parameter should be constraint. We have derived
a constraint condition of the diffusion parameter, as presented in the revised
Supplementary Material S1:
We have also stressed the confine of the value of \beta below Eq. (1) in the main
text:
Summary: We again thank the reviewer for his/her valuable and insightful comments
and suggestions, which greatly help us to improve our manuscript. We believe our
revised manuscript becomes more scientifically sound and of general interest to the
readers of Royal Society Open Science. We hope the reviewer could reconsider our
revised manuscript and it can be judged to have met the high standard of Royal
Society Open Science. We again thank the reviewer for his/her time and effort in
reviewing our manuscript and providing pertinent comments.
Response to the comments of Associate Editor
---------------------------------------------------------
We would like to take the opportunity to thank the associate editor for his/her time
and effort in reviewing our manuscript. The associate Editor considered the comments
of both reviewers, and stated that “I agree with both reviewers that the model treated
is a linear one whereas the motivation is epidemic modeling. There is a mismatch here.
Reviewer 2 sees this as a fatal flaw. Reviewer 1 does not. I think this discrepancy
could be addressed by saying as a first step to locating sources of infection in
epidemic models; this paper locates sources for a linear diffusion problem. Also it
could be mentioned that epidemics may be treated as linear in the early stages if the
network connectivity is high”. The associate editor further raised some comments and
suggestions, including the mapping from discrete variables to continuous ones,
removing the statement “counter-intuitive”, noisy effect, and the possibility of
inferring t_0 based on negative values. We have revised our manuscript to implement
all the pertinent and insightful comments and suggestions. Presented below is a point-
to-point response to all the comments and suggestions.
Comment 1: I agree with both reviewers that the model treated is a linear one
whereas the motivation is epidemic modeling. There is a mismatch here. Reviewer 2
sees this as a fatal flaw. Reviewer 1 does not. I think this discrepancy could be
addressed by saying as a first step to locating sources of infection in epidemic
models, this paper locates sources for a linear diffusion problem. Also it could be
mentioned that epidemics may be treated as linear in the early stages if the network
connectivity is high, but as Reviewer 2 points out, one has to map discrete variables
to continuous ones.
Response: We thank for these valuable comments and suggestions. In the revised
manuscript, we have mentioned that “epidemics may be treated as linear in the early
stages if the network connectivity is high” below Eq. (1) in the revised manuscript.
In the revised supplemental materials, we have also added formulas and description
for dealing with continuous dynamics in the revised supplemental material S2:
Comment 2: I agree with Reviewer 2 that the sufficiency of a single messenger node
is not counter-intuitive. So I think “counter-intuitive” has to be removed. Yet with
noise (dynamic and measurement) it is not clear if the statement would still hold.
The results seem to indicate that it does, at least in the regimes tested. One could
presumably make counterexamples by observing miles away from the source and
thereby failing to detect the source at all.
Response: We thank for the valuable comments and suggestions. In section 4 in the
revised manuscript, the statement “counter-intuitive” has been removed.
We totally agree with the associate editor that in the presence of strong noise, a
single messenger may fail to accurately locate sources far away from the messenger
node. Thus, we have confined our conclusion to the scenario of weak noise. As shown
in Fig. 6(c-d) in the main text, when noise variance is not large, e.g., s = 0.5 ,
AUROC exceeds 0.95, indicating an accurate localization based on a single
messenger node indeed. We again thank the associate editor for this valuable and
constructive comment.
Comment 3: Reviewer 1 identifies a number of places where improvement is
desirable, and some of these are echoed by reviewer 2. I have one further comment:
if the data comes from an initial condition of the stated form, then going back one
step in time will produce a negative value somewhere. Why not use this as the test
for t_0?
Response: We thank for this valuable and constructive suggestion. In the revised
manuscript, we have included negative values as a second criterion for inferring t_0
and provided an explanation for the feasibility of using negative values as a criterion.
We have carefully considered the suggestion and believe that using negative values to
infer initial time is very reasonable. In the revised manuscript, we have added a
paragraph to introduce and explain the method in the last paragraph on page 12, see
below:
Again we thank the associate editor for this valuable and constructive suggestion.
We have also full addressed the comments and suggestions raised by both referees.
Summary: We again thank the associate editor for his/her valuable and insightful
comments and suggestions, which greatly help us to improve our manuscript. We
believe our revised manuscript becomes more scientifically sound and of general
interest to the readers of Royal Society Open Science. We hope our revised
manuscript can be judged to have met the high standard of Royal Society Open
Science. We again thank the associate editor for his/her time and effort in reviewing
our manuscript and providing pertinent comments.
Society Open
