Repeatability in the contact calling system of Spix’s disc-
winged bat (Thyroptera tricolor)
Gloriana Chaverri, Erin H. Gillam
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140197.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140197
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st resubmission date: 3 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd resubmission date: 11 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 22 December 2014
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140197.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript deals on the variation in the production of contact calls in Spix’s disc winged
bats, which form cohesive groups and seem to use these calls to maintain group cohesion. Two
different types of contact calls are distinguished, the inquiry call and the response call, and the
rate of these calls and repeatability of calling behaviour over three years in a single population
have been analysed. Although playback experiments have been used to elicit response calls, in
the way the manuscript is written, I consider the study as purely descriptive.
The paper includes a huge amount of data and represents one of the few studies where repeated
recordings are available from many different individuals over a long time up to 3 years.
Questions addressed on the variation in calling behaviour by the same individual (intra-
individual) and between individuals (inter-individual) are of large interest to understand the
group dynamic and how this species maintains group cohesion. This is a topic of major interest to
a large scientific community and as the authors correctly point out, not much research has been
done on the importance vocalisations on leadership and group cohesion and how individual
variation affects the dynamic.
However, the weak point of the manuscript is that many concepts are mentioned but not
properly tested and neither clearly discussed. This makes it very difficult to follow what the focus
of the manuscript is. For example, the first paragraph in the introduction is all about personality.
But I do not see how this aspect is tested, except for the repeatability over time, and in the
discussion there is one sentence that mentions personality.
Furthermore, the structure of Methods and Results could be improved by integrating the first two
paragraphs of Results into the Method sections. The results should then clearly state the analysed
data and statistical analyses, although rather than focusing on the statistics, it should be
combined with the relevant biological question, as this is what we are interested in. Statistics is
just the tool to find the pattern in the data distribution. The whole result section from line 206 to
line 243 needs major editing.
Additional, minor points:
1) P2, L25: Insert ‘the’ in ‘….roost, partly due to the use of two….’.
2) P3, L54: To make the logic very clear potentially rewrite ‘…..as being able to easily locate
mates, offspring, or other group members, and not to invest time to search for them can impact
the reproductive success…’
3) P8, L182 to 191: What age are juveniles then typically? 0 to 12 months? From what I
understood you divided between before reproductive mature and when mature?
4) P9 to 10, L206 to 221: I suggest to move all these information to the Method section and
just present sample sizes within the statistics? Reformulate your Result section with the biological
question being the relevant information and the statistics showing evidence for an observed
biological pattern.
5) Discussion: The discussion brings up many good points on contact call production,
however, it does not fit the subjects introduced in the introduction very well.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear how to access the data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript is very well written, the topic (individual consistency in contact calling behavior)
is of great interest and the study organism (Thyroptera tricolor) is certainly well suited to address
this question in a natural or semi-natural setting. However, I do not think that the quality of the
data necessarily warrants the strong conclusions drawn by the authors (see major comments
below).
Major comments:
1) Time between recording events was rather short for many individuals, especially for response
calls (L 211-212 and L220-221), which is why the authors’ claim that individual differences
persisted across time should be discussed with greater care.
2) The social context in which response calling behavior was elicited was not clearly defined,
which seems to be caused by a general problem in the experimental design - it would have
probably been better to only broadcast inquiry calls from non-group members (to be on the safe
side regarding social bonds, relatedness, etc.). Since it turned out that bats preferentially respond
to inquiry calls from specific individuals (by producing more response calls; L 259-263), the
conclusions drawn from the repeatability found in response calling behavior (which was only
moderate to begin with; L 238-239; table 2) should be much more conservative than they
currently are.
In this context, it is especially confusing that an earlier study by the same authors (reference 28)
found that roosting bats exhibited no preference for inquiry calls from group or nongroup
members and produced response calls indiscriminately (see also L 287-289). How can this
discrepancy be explained?
3) Also, with bats preferentially responding to inquiry calls from specific individuals, it would be
really important to have some information about individual signatures in inquiry and response
calls. An earlier study by the same authors (Gillam & Chaverri. 2012. Strong individual
signatures and weaker group signatures in contact calls of Spix’s disc-winged bat, Thyroptera
tricolor. Anim Behav 83, 269-276) provides evidence that both inquiry and response calls permit
separation of individuals. Why is this study not even mentioned in the manuscript? It would be
helpful to discuss how the findings on individual signatures might fit with the indiscriminant
response behavior.
4) I cannot follow the logic of certain parts of the discussion at all (L 304-321): Why should
lactating females call less to save energy – shouldn’t they produce more inquiry calls to find a
roost sooner? Why should juveniles produce more response calls than adults? If they do not wish
to be separated from their social group, they should produce more inquiry calls, right? Or is it
normal in T. tricolor that juveniles find new roosts and actively recruit group members there?
And finally, why should males call more often than females and thus be responsible for
coordinating group movements? If I remember correctly, both sexes are philopatric in T. tricolor
(Chaverri & Kunz 2011) and mating occurs outside the social group (Buchalski et al. 2013).
Wouldn’t it make more sense for the females to be the more vocal sex, then? Overall, the authors
4
should interpret their results with greater consideration of what is known about the species’
natural history (or discuss why the results seem to be counterintuitive).
Minor comments:
L 60: Please cite reference 10 here (Wilkinson & Boughman 1998); screech calls of P. hastatus are
one of the most convincing bat contact calling systems studied to date.
L 116: Please provide more information about the model.
L 207/218: Please mention how many males/females and adults/juveniles were sampled
repeatedly for inquiry and response calls.
L222: Please give information on Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin and Bartlett’s test criteria for the PCA.
L 259: Please provide more information about the model.
L 264: I do not understand why the last GLM (L 259-263) would suggest that “major differences
in vocal behavior persist among bats”. If you want to make a general, recapitulatory statement,
please state this clearly.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140197)
11-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Chaverri,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Repeatability in the contact calling system of Spix’s
disc-winged bat (Thyroptera tricolor)") has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140197)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140197.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The manuscript has much improved in the clarity of writing and bringing in the additional
information asked by the reviewers. I am satisfied with the revision and I have only a few
additional points to address.
Additional, minor points:
1) P4, L76 - 81: It is not clear to me whether this section suggests to test alternative
hypotheses. Transitions between sentences make it difficult to follow.
2) P6, L138: Can you give a duration range of recordings for the free flight experiments, as
you give for the cage experiment with a typical duration of 3 min?
3) P11, L243: I suggest to insert ‘call rate’ in the sentence: ‘For inquiry calls, repeatability
was highest for call rate, i.e. the number of calls produced per minute …..’.
4) P11, L253 - 254: It seems not correct to say ‘…suggesting that bats that produced more
inquiry calls also produced more response calls.’ You compared call rate of inquiry calls with
number of response calls per bout. This to me is not equal to how many calls they produced in
the different situations, and does not allow the conclusion that bats that produced more inquiry
calls also produced more response calls. Please, be more specific here what you really compared.
5) P12, L281: Also add that the 7 responding individuals not only responded to only certain
inquiry calls, but that the 7 individuals also varied to which of those calls the responded.
6
6) P14 – 15, L327 – 336: Another explanation on juveniles emitting more response calls than
inquiry calls may be that they are not able to produce calls during flights due to energetic costs.
But in the roosts they might have a higher motivation to immediately reply to calls of other group
members due to their urge to keep cohesion.
7) Figure 4: Delete the lines between the different categories tested. These data are not
dependent to each other. It is clear enough with different colors that they belong either to the left
or right y-axes.
8) Figure 5: Rather write for x-axis: ‘Identity of inquiry call broadcast’. ‘Reproduced’
sounds strange, and without mentioning identity it is not clear what the numbers mean.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140197.R1)
11-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Chaverri:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140197.R1 entitled "Repeatability in the contact calling system of Spix’s disc-
winged bat (Thyroptera tricolor)" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 03-Jan-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
7
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Sincerely,
Dr Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
kpadian@berkeley.edu
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140197.R1)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
October 3, 2014
harlotte Wray
enior Publishing Editor
oyal Society Open Science
ear Dr. Wray,
We are submitting a revised version of our manuscript “Repeatability in the contact calling
ystem of Spix’s disc-winged bat (Thyroptera tricolor)”. We have incorporated all changes
uggested by reviewers. In the text that follows, we explain how we have addressed each
ne of these comments. Our responses are found below each one of the comments, in
old.
lease let us know if you have any questions, and we look forward to hearing from you
oon.
ind regards,
loriana Chaverri
omments to Author
eviewer 1
owever, the weak point of the manuscript is that many concepts are mentioned but not properly
ested and neither clearly discussed. This makes it very difficult to follow what the focus of the
anuscript is. For example, the first paragraph in the introduction is all about personality. But I do
ot see how this aspect is tested, except for the repeatability over time, and in the discussion
here is one sentence that mentions personality.
esponse: We have removed the term “personality” from much of the manuscript to make it
lear that we are addressing repeatability in calling behavior. This should provide better
lignment between what we discuss in the Introduction and what we actually test.
urthermore, the structure of Methods and Results could be improved by integrating the first two
aragraphs of Results into the Method sections. The results should then clearly state the analysed
ata and statistical analyses, although rather than focusing on the statistics, it should be combined
ith the relevant biological question, as this is what we are interested in. Statistics is just the tool
o find the pattern in the data distribution. The whole result section from line 206 to line 243
eeds major editing.
esponse: We have moved the first two paragraphs of the results section to the methods
ection, as suggested. We have also clarified what data were used for each one of the analyses
resented, and in addition to presenting the statistical results, we have added a short
nterpretation of the biological question being addressed to each one of the major results. We
re not sure what major edits the reviewer is suggesting to lines 206-243. Any ideas about how
o improve these lines would be appreciated.
dditional, minor points:
) P2, L25: Insert ‘the’ in ‘….roost, partly due to the use of two….’.
esponse: We have changed this as suggested.
) P3, L54: To make the logic very clear potentially rewrite ‘…..as being able to easily locate
ates, offspring, or other group members, and not to invest time to search for them can impact
he reproductive success…’
esponse: We have changed this as suggested.
) P8, L182 to 191: What age are juveniles then typically? 0 to 12 months? >From what I
nderstood you divided between before reproductive mature and when mature?
esponse: We have added text, and a reference, to clarify this: “A combination of all of these
atter characteristics occurs in individuals younger than 6-7 months old [38]; thus, bats were
onsidered juvenile if they were younger than 8 months.”
) P9 to 10, L206 to 221: I suggest to move all these information to the Method section
nd just present sample sizes within the statistics? Reformulate your Result section with the
iological question being the relevant information and the statistics showing evidence for an
bserved biological pattern.
esponse: We have moved the first two paragraphs to the methods section, as suggested.
) Discussion: The discussion brings up many good points on contact call production,
owever, it does not fit the subjects introduced in the introduction very well.
esponse: We have addressed this question by focusing the Introduction more on repeatability,
hich is what we explicitly test in this study. We then spend time in the Discussion talking
bout possible explanations for the pattern of repeatability we observed in our study. We
elieve this alignment has reduced the discrepancy between the Introduction and Discussion.
eviewer: 2
ajor comments:
) Time between recording events was rather short for many individuals, especially for response
alls (L 211-212 and L220-221), which is why the authors’ claim that individual differences
ersisted across time should be discussed with greater care.
esponse: We have removed the claim that individual differences persist across time where
ecessary.
) The social context in which response calling behavior was elicited was not clearly defined, which
eems to be caused by a general problem in the experimental design - it would have probably
een better to only broadcast inquiry calls from non-group members (to be on the safe side
egarding social bonds, relatedness, etc.). Since it turned out that bats preferentially respond to
nquiry calls from specific individuals (by producing more response calls; L 259-263), the
onclusions drawn from the repeatability found in response calling behavior (which was only
oderate to begin with; L 238-239; table 2) should be much more conservative than they
urrently are.
esponse: We have added a new figure to show that although our results suggest that bats may
referentially respond to specific inquiry calls, overall differences between individuals still
ersist. In addition, we have added this sentence to the method’s section where we explain the
etup for recording response calls: “We believe this setup mimicked the social context in which
esponse calling occurs: bats within a roost listen to an inquiry call from an individual flying
earby, either a group or non-group member, and then decides whether to respond or not.”
n this context, it is especially confusing that an earlier study by the same authors (reference 28)
ound that roosting bats exhibited no preference for inquiry calls from group or nongroup
embers and produced response calls indiscriminately (see also L 287-289). How can this
iscrepancy be explained?
esponse: We have added this new paragraph to the discussion: “An unresolved question from
revious studies on this system is why roosting individuals seem to respond indiscriminately
regardless of whether the inquiry caller is a group member or not [28]), if, as we assume,
roduction of response calls has a significant cost. Preliminary results from our current study
uggest that while significant differences in vocal behaviour among bats persist, bats may
referentially respond to specific individuals. Further studies investigating these preferences,
he cost of sound production, and the benefits to group performance, will help us understand
ow inter-individual variation in this behaviour is maintained.”
) Also, with bats preferentially responding to inquiry calls from specific individuals, it would be
eally important to have some information about individual signatures in inquiry and response
alls. An earlier study by the same authors (Gillam & Chaverri. 2012. Strong individual signatures
nd weaker group signatures in contact calls of Spix’s disc-winged bat, Thyroptera tricolor. Anim
ehav 83, 269-276) provides evidence that both inquiry and response calls permit separation of
ndividuals. Why is this study not even mentioned in the manuscript? It would be helpful to discuss
ow the findings on individual signatures might fit with the indiscriminant response behavior.
esponse: In the introduction, we now discuss previous studies addressing the information
apacity of the two call types and discriminatory behavior of bats in reference to these calls.
) I cannot follow the logic of certain parts of the discussion at all (L 304-321): Why should
actating females call less to save energy – shouldn’t they produce more inquiry calls to find a
oost sooner?
esponse: We have added this text to the discussion: “For example, lactating females produced
ewer response calls than non-reproductive and pregnant females, which suggests that during
imes of high energetic expenditure [53], individuals may avoid the additional costs of sound
roduction [43]. However, it remains a puzzle why lactating females produce fewer inquiry calls,
s locating suitable roost sites quickly may compensate the energy spent vocalizing.”
hy should juveniles produce more response calls than adults? If they do not wish to be
eparated from their social group, they should produce more inquiry calls, right? Or is it normal in
. tricolor that juveniles find new roosts and actively recruit group members there?
esponse: We have modified the section on juveniles as follows: “While explanations regarding
hese differences in vocal behaviour between young and adult bats are still speculative, we
ropose that juveniles may more readily call if the costs of remaining separated from the group
re higher compared to a solo adult. Given that juvenile animals are generally inexperienced
unters [54] that may rely on social learning from adults to improve foraging skills, incurring the
ost of increased vocalization may be small compared to the benefit of relocating adult group
embers. Why juvenile bats do not produce more inquiry calls during flight, a time when
emaining with experienced foragers is more critical, is still a question that deserves further
tudy.”
nd finally, why should males call more often than females and thus be responsible for
oordinating group movements? If I remember correctly, both sexes are philopatric in T. tricolor
Chaverri & Kunz 2011) and mating occurs outside the social group (Buchalski et al. 2013).
ouldn’t it make more sense for the females to be the more vocal sex, then? Overall, the authors
hould interpret their results with greater consideration of what is known about the species’
atural history (or discuss why the results seem to be counterintuitive).
esponse: As mentioned in the introduction, we had no a priori expectation as to whether males
r females would be more vocal. In this part of the discussion we do not have sufficient
vidence to reach any conclusion regarding the trend in vocal behavior, and that is why we just
ention our results and compare them briefly to other published studies without attempting to
xplain them. As with the differences in vocal behavior between young and adult, and females
n different reproductive conditions, any explanations are still very preliminary and speculative.
hile for reproductive condition and age we mention that our results are counterintuitive, we
annot do the same for the differences observed between males and females.
inor comments:
60: Please cite reference 10 here (Wilkinson & Boughman 1998); screech calls of P. hastatus are
ne of the most convincing bat contact calling systems studied to date.
esponse: We have added this citation.
116: Please provide more information about the model.
esponse: We have modified the paragraph as follows: “For all individuals and groups captured,
e recorded inquiry calls either during free flight or within a small portable flight cage (3 x 3 x 2
). To determine if bats recorded using both methods vocalized in a similar manner, we applied
General Linear Model in SPSS v. 20 (IBM Corporation, New York). We used as dependent
ariables the time from trial start to production of first call, and number of calls produced per
inute (see methods below for estimating these variables), and as fixed factors bat identity and
ethod of recording (free flight or in flight cage). Only four bats were recorded using these two
ethods, and we observed no significant differences in their calling behaviour (time of first call:
1,20= 2.18, P = 0.15; number of calls per minute: F1,20= 0.12, P = 0.72). Thus, we decided to
ombine data from both methods into further analyses.”
207/218: Please mention how many males/females and adults/juveniles were sampled
epeatedly for inquiry and response calls.
esponse: We have added this information in these paragraphs, which are now part of the
ethods section.
222: Please give information on Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin and Bartlett’s test criteria for the PCA.
esponse: KMO for inquiry calls was 0.30, and thus the PCA is not adequate. To solve this, we
ave decided to use the original data in a correlation analysis, as such: “We ran a Pearson
orrelation analysis with the variables number of inquiry calls produced per minute and average
umber of response calls per bout to determine if inquiry calling behaviour was correlated to
esponse calling behaviour within individuals.”
259: Please provide more information about the model.
esponse: We have added the following information: “Our generalized linear models to test if
ats preferentially respond to specific individuals show that the interaction between the
dentity of the inquiry call and the order in which calls were presented significantly explain the
umber of response calls emitted (<U+03A7>2 = 11.44, d.f.= 5, P = 0.04), but each variable by itself was
ot significant (inquiry call identity: <U+03A7>2 = 4.19, d.f.= 8, P = 0.84; order: <U+03A7>2 = 10.45, d.f.= 15, P =
.79). Results also confirm that the most important variable explaining the differences in the
umber of response calls produced was bat identity (<U+03A7>2 = 53.56, d.f.= 6, P < 0.001; Figure 5).”
264: I do not understand why the last GLM (L 259-263) would suggest that “major differences in
ocal behavior persist among bats”. If you want to make a general, recapitulatory statement,
lease state this clearly.
esponse: In addition to a new figure (Figure 5) that shows these differences, we have added
his explanation to the text: “These findings suggest that major differences in vocal behaviour
ersist among bats, but that each individual exhibits preferential responses towards particular
nquiry calls and the order in which they are presented. For example, of the 7 individuals
onsidered in the analysis, all of them responded to certain, but not all, inquiry calls (Figure 5),
et when we compare the average number of calls produced we can see that bats such as #402
nd #41643 produced many response calls when they vocalized, whereas all other bats
roduced very few calls.”
Appendix B
December 11, 2014
evin Padian
ubject Editor
oyal Society Open Science
ear Dr. Padian,
We are submitting a revised version of our manuscript “Repeatability in the contact calling
ystem of Spix’s disc-winged bat (Thyroptera tricolor)” (Manuscript ID RSOS-140197.R1).
We have incorporated almost all changes suggested by the reviewer. In the text that
ollows, we explain how we have addressed each one of these comments. Our responses
re found below each one of the comments, in bold.
lease let us know if you have any questions, and we look forward to hearing from you
oon.
ind regards,
loriana Chaverri
omments to Author
) P4, L76 - 81: It is not clear to me whether this section suggests to test alternative
ypotheses. Transitions between sentences make it difficult to follow.
: We have modified this section as follows: “In field experiments, results show that
lying bats can discriminate among the response calls of roosting bats, preferentially
ntering leaf roosts from which the calls of group members are being broadcast [29],
hereas roosting bats do not preferentially respond to the inquiry calls of flying bats
29]. Given the lower information capacity of inquiry calls [30], coupled with the
nowledge that reception of calls through the tubular leaf leads to signal distortion [31],
t seems likely that roosting bats are unable to efficiently assess sender identity based
n inquiry call structure.”
) P6, L138: Can you give a duration range of recordings for the free flight experiments, as
ou give for the cage experiment with a typical duration of 3 min?
: We have modified this sentence as follows: This process was repeated for all group
embers. Trials were defined as the period from the start to the end of the bat’s flight
typically 3 min in the flight cage) or until the bat was not flying within the recording
ange (free flight experiments), which was typically less than 1 min.
) P11, L243: I suggest to insert ‘call rate’ in the sentence: ‘For inquiry calls, repeatability
as highest for call rate, i.e. the number of calls produced per minute …..’.
: We have modified this sentence as follows: “For inquiry calls, repeatability was
ighest for call rate, i.e. the number of calls produced per minute (R = 0.46), and for
hether bats vocalized during flight or not (R = 0.49).”
) P11, L253 - 254: It seems not correct to say ‘…suggesting that bats that produced more
nquiry calls also produced more response calls.’ You compared call rate of inquiry calls
ith number of response calls per bout. This to me is not equal to how many calls they
roduced in the different situations, and does not allow the conclusion that bats that
roduced more inquiry calls also produced more response calls. Please, be more specific
ere what you really compared.
: We have now modified this sentence as follows: “Our results show that there was a
eak, but significant, positive correlation between the number of inquiry and response
alls (r = 0.18, P = 0.03; Figure 2), suggesting that bats that produced more inquiry calls
er minute also produced more response calls per bout.”
) P12, L281: Also add that the 7 responding individuals not only responded to only certain
nquiry calls, but that the 7 individuals also varied to which of those calls the responded.
: I do not understand this comment. Is the reviewer referring to the fact that in
ddition to bats responding to only certain bats, they also differ in overall levels of
esponse call production?
) P14 – 15, L327 – 336: Another explanation on juveniles emitting more response calls
han inquiry calls may be that they are not able to produce calls during flights due to
nergetic costs. But in the roosts they might have a higher motivation to immediately
eply to calls of other group members due to their urge to keep cohesion.
: We have decided not to incorporate this comment into our manuscript, as for the
oment it would remain speculative. In fact, many studies suggest that sound emission
uring flight may not be energetically expensive for bats, as they time their vocal
roduction to the wings’ up-stroke, and thus take advantage of the contraction of
uscles to produce these sounds. In contrast, sound production during rest, as would
ccur inside the roost, is believed to be energetically expensive for many organisms.
herefore, at the moment it remains difficult to explain the patterns of sound
roduction we observed in juveniles.
) Figure 4: Delete the lines between the different categories tested. These data are not
ependent to each other. It is clear enough with different colors that they belong either to
he left or right y-axes.
: We have deleted the lines as suggested.
) Figure 5: Rather write for x-axis: ‘Identity of inquiry call broadcast’. ‘Reproduced’
ounds strange, and without mentioning identity it is not clear what the numbers mean.
: We have changed the label of the x axis as suggested.
Society Open
