Skin temperature changes in wild chimpanzees upon
hearing vocalizations of conspecifics
Guillaume Dezecache, Klaus Zuberbühler, Marina Davila-Ross and Christoph D. Dahl
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160816.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160816
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 December 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 December 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160816.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Alexander Georgiev)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
-
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an exciting and well-designed study showing how remote infrared remote thermography
can be successfully used in field conditions to study the effect of naturally occurring conspecific
vocalisations on chimpanzee skin temperature as a proxy of changes in their emotional states.
This work is likely to generate considerable interest and lead to further use of this method to
study a variety of questions that were previously logistically intractable outside the laboratory.
My comments below require only relatively minor revisions.
Methods & Discussion: Some further context for the subjects used for IRT would be helpful:
age/sex for each animal tested; were any of the females in oestrous/lactating/etc?; for males –
were they engaged in mating competition on any of the study days. I realise that these details
would probably not affect the results and analyses presented here but I think it would be
important to give interested readers better background on any social factors that might have been
in play during image collection. Perhaps it would be too speculative – but have you considered
using differences in absolute temperatures to investigate their relationship to such variable social
conditions over different days? You noted that external factors (e.g. temperature, humidity) make
direct comparisons difficult –but I wonder if you think this might be one potential avenue for
future research, if adequate control variables are included in statistical analysis (e.g. data on
climatic variables and sunlight conditions for each image recorded)? I would also be interested to
read more in the Discussion section about your evaluation about the potential future use of this
method for investigating trait-like characteristics of individuals (as opposed to state-like ones,
that might be more transient). This is a very interesting study and probably I have too many
questions about the future applications of this method than space would allow you to address –
but in case you can provide some further thoughts on this, I am sure other readers would also
find it fascinating to read.
Line-by-line comments:
L18: Not entirely sure the phrase ‘recent’ is entirely justified given some of the papers on this
topic, and certainly some of the first examples of using remote measures of skin temperature,
date back to the 1990s (and at least a few, to the late 1980s). This is subjective (personally, I try to
reserve the term ‘recent’ for studies from the last 5 years or so) but a more suitable phrase could
perhaps be used here to convey the growing enthusiasm for this line of research, without
suggesting these methods did not exist until fairly recently?
L25 – 28: I suggest rephrasing this to emphasise the methodological contribution of this work
rather than claiming that the main contribution of this research is to suggest that vocalizations
can ‘trigger emotional states’. Surely, this is not that novel an idea (although perhaps there is still
debate among some scholars on this topic… )? I think the key advance here is the use of IRT to
accurately quantify these changes in emotional states and thus contribute to a more rigorous
study of rapid physiological changes, associated with conspecific social interactions.
L83: Shifts (plural).
L89: A ‘systematic study’ is somewhat redundant. A study by definition should be systematic…
otherwise it’s not really a study, more a series of observations.
L92: Some barks may not be aversive in the way I am reading this definition here. E.g. food
barks/grunts/calls – while associated with a seemingly excited state of the calling animal are not
negative in nature (although may be associated with some anticipated competition and even
aggression once in the feeding tree, for example). Could you clarify here (or in the methods
3
section: e.g. L136-137) if you had any specific predictions regarding such vocalisations, or
whether you excluded such calls from the framework given here?
L122: Given the broad audience of the journal, I’d suggest defining ‘party’ here for readers not
familiar with the fission-fusion grouping patterns in chimpanzees. And maybe even providing
some additional and relevant natural history information on this species in the Methods section
for context.
L176: “Main effect’ is not very informative as a subheading. Could you suggest something more
helpful?
L182: Do you mean ‘for’ rather than ‘on’?
L236: Change to ‘the most emotionally charged’
L241: The dog study you cite actually shows ear temperature decreased in response to separation
stress. Which is contrary to your finding for chimp ears. Dogs are more auditory-focused animals
(I think?) and do move their ears about a bit much more than chimps (from what I’ve seen). So
would you expect the same functional explanation for changes in ear temp to hold in the two
species? Why or why not? Overall I think the difference between results in ears and nose in this
study are not explained to the extent that I would have liked to see. It is perhaps too early to
provide a definitive explanation but I would like to push you a bit further in addressing this
unexpected inconsistency. A more detailed discussion of the dog study, in particular, might help
in that respect. While they reported drops in temperature upon separation (owner or other
human leaves the room), they also show that increases in ear temperature when the dog’s owner
(or stranger) shows up. Given the well-known social function of some long-distance calls in
chimps – I wonder if you’d care to discuss further how your results may or may not compare to
what’s been shown in pet dogs? The dog paper also cites a chicken study with similarly different
results (temp goes up and down depending on circumstances). Perhaps also worth considering in
your discussion of your findings.
Fig. 1. I very much like being able to see the series as shown but maybe also worth including a
separate figure of a subpanel to this one which shows the face of a chimp in close up – the images
are tiny so would be nice to see a bigger-sized version of this as well (or maybe they are bigger in
the actual file submitted than the one I am able to view as part of the MS submission here?). Also
– the #E is too difficult to interpret what is actually happening - i.e. what position is the chimp
in… As an additional point, the green frame is a nice touch to allow seeing when the vocalisation
occurred but are we supposed to be able to visually detect a change in the colour before and after
the frame? I can’t spot much of a difference at this size/resolution. Maybe instead of showing
multiple series, you could pick one or two which provide the best illustration and have them in
bigger size to allow more detailed inspection.
Alexander Georgiev,
Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Stephanos Ioannou)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
4
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Emotions have a bidirectional union with behaviour in both human and non-human primates.
Physiology is the fuel that feeds this engine and it is important to be investigated. I particularly
enjoyed your study, the arguments in the introduction as well as the method of analyses and data
extraction used. In addition to this it is the first time that the thermal patterns of the ear have been
studied. Nicely presented overall. Please pay attention to the major comments made. (See
Appendix A.)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160816)
13th December 2016
Dear Dr Dezecache
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160816 entitled
"Skin temperature changes in wild chimpanzees upon hearing vocalizations of conspecifics" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
5
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160816
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21st December 2016). If you do
not think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
6
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Essi Viding
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an exciting and well-designed study showing how remote infrared remote thermography
can be successfully used in field conditions to study the effect of naturally occurring conspecific
vocalisations on chimpanzee skin temperature as a proxy of changes in their emotional states.
This work is likely to generate considerable interest and lead to further use of this method to
study a variety of questions that were previously logistically intractable outside the laboratory.
My comments below require only relatively minor revisions.
Methods & Discussion: Some further context for the subjects used for IRT would be helpful:
age/sex for each animal tested; were any of the females in oestrous/lactating/etc?; for males –
were they engaged in mating competition on any of the study days. I realise that these details
7
would probably not affect the results and analyses presented here but I think it would be
important to give interested readers better background on any social factors that might have been
in play during image collection. Perhaps it would be too speculative – but have you considered
using differences in absolute temperatures to investigate their relationship to such variable social
conditions over different days? You noted that external factors (e.g. temperature, humidity) make
direct comparisons difficult –but I wonder if you think this might be one potential avenue for
future research, if adequate control variables are included in statistical analysis (e.g. data on
climatic variables and sunlight conditions for each image recorded)? I would also be interested to
read more in the Discussion section about your evaluation about the potential future use of this
method for investigating trait-like characteristics of individuals (as opposed to state-like ones,
that might be more transient). This is a very interesting study and probably I have too many
questions about the future applications of this method than space would allow you to address –
but in case you can provide some further thoughts on this, I am sure other readers would also
find it fascinating to read.
Line-by-line comments:
L18: Not entirely sure the phrase ‘recent’ is entirely justified given some of the papers on this
topic, and certainly some of the first examples of using remote measures of skin temperature,
date back to the 1990s (and at least a few, to the late 1980s). This is subjective (personally, I try to
reserve the term ‘recent’ for studies from the last 5 years or so) but a more suitable phrase could
perhaps be used here to convey the growing enthusiasm for this line of research, without
suggesting these methods did not exist until fairly recently?
L25 – 28: I suggest rephrasing this to emphasise the methodological contribution of this work
rather than claiming that the main contribution of this research is to suggest that vocalizations
can ‘trigger emotional states’. Surely, this is not that novel an idea (although perhaps there is still
debate among some scholars on this topic… )? I think the key advance here is the use of IRT to
accurately quantify these changes in emotional states and thus contribute to a more rigorous
study of rapid physiological changes, associated with conspecific social interactions.
L83: Shifts (plural).
L89: A ‘systematic study’ is somewhat redundant. A study by definition should be systematic…
otherwise it’s not really a study, more a series of observations.
L92: Some barks may not be aversive in the way I am reading this definition here. E.g. food
barks/grunts/calls – while associated with a seemingly excited state of the calling animal are not
negative in nature (although may be associated with some anticipated competition and even
aggression once in the feeding tree, for example). Could you clarify here (or in the methods
section: e.g. L136-137) if you had any specific predictions regarding such vocalisations, or
whether you excluded such calls from the framework given here?
L122: Given the broad audience of the journal, I’d suggest defining ‘party’ here for readers not
familiar with the fission-fusion grouping patterns in chimpanzees. And maybe even providing
some additional and relevant natural history information on this species in the Methods section
for context.
L176: “Main effect’ is not very informative as a subheading. Could you suggest something more
helpful?
L182: Do you mean ‘for’ rather than ‘on’?
L236: Change to ‘the most emotionally charged’
8
L241: The dog study you cite actually shows ear temperature decreased in response to separation
stress. Which is contrary to your finding for chimp ears. Dogs are more auditory-focused animals
(I think?) and do move their ears about a bit much more than chimps (from what I’ve seen). So
would you expect the same functional explanation for changes in ear temp to hold in the two
species? Why or why not? Overall I think the difference between results in ears and nose in this
study are not explained to the extent that I would have liked to see. It is perhaps too early to
provide a definitive explanation but I would like to push you a bit further in addressing this
unexpected inconsistency. A more detailed discussion of the dog study, in particular, might help
in that respect. While they reported drops in temperature upon separation (owner or other
human leaves the room), they also show that increases in ear temperature when the dog’s owner
(or stranger) shows up. Given the well-known social function of some long-distance calls in
chimps – I wonder if you’d care to discuss further how your results may or may not compare to
what’s been shown in pet dogs? The dog paper also cites a chicken study with similarly different
results (temp goes up and down depending on circumstances). Perhaps also worth considering in
your discussion of your findings.
Fig. 1. I very much like being able to see the series as shown but maybe also worth including a
separate figure of a subpanel to this one which shows the face of a chimp in close up – the images
are tiny so would be nice to see a bigger-sized version of this as well (or maybe they are bigger in
the actual file submitted than the one I am able to view as part of the MS submission here?). Also
– the #E is too difficult to interpret what is actually happening - i.e. what position is the chimp
in… As an additional point, the green frame is a nice touch to allow seeing when the vocalisation
occurred but are we supposed to be able to visually detect a change in the colour before and after
the frame? I can’t spot much of a difference at this size/resolution. Maybe instead of showing
multiple series, you could pick one or two which provide the best illustration and have them in
bigger size to allow more detailed inspection.
Alexander Georgiev,
Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Emotions have a bidirectional union with behaviour in both human and non-human primates.
Physiology is the fuel that feeds this engine and it is important to be investigated. I particularly
enjoyed your study, the arguments in the introduction as well as the method of analyses and data
extraction used. In addition to this it is the first time that the thermal patterns of the ear have been
studied. Nicely presented overall. Please pay attention to the major comments made.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160816)
See Appendix B.
9
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160816.R1)
22-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Dezecache,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Skin temperature changes in wild
chimpanzees upon hearing vocalizations of conspecifics" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Emotions have a bidirectional union with behaviour in both human and non-human
primates. Physiology is the fuel that feeds this engine and it is important to be
investigated. I particularly enjoyed your study, the arguments in the introduction as
well as the method of analyses and data extraction used. In addition to this it is the
first time that the thermal patterns of the ear have been studied. Nicely presented
overall. Please pay attention to the major comments made.
Major:
Line 58: Changes in body surface temperature reflect shifts in blood flow to the
surface of the skin, a process that is controlled by the autonomic nervous system [16].
Can you please expand and explain in two or three lines some of the physiological
aspects of this change? (Ioannou et al., 2015 No Strings attached). You can also
explain this later on in the text.
Line 81: First, nasal temperature is largely affected by the breathing pattern, with
increased breathing causing significant and rapid cooling of the nose, a pattern of
activity which might erratically be associated with shift in the emotional state of the
animal.
There are arguments for and against breathing artifacts. We have recently shown in a
crying article that the decrease of the nose is not related to a respiration increase
(Ioannou et al., 2016) Sympathy Crying: Insights from Infrared Thermal Imaging on
a Female Sample. You can also include other articles that have examined for this
effect. I believe there might be a summary of this on the review by Ioannou et al.,
“Studies that addressed this phenomenon of nasal temperature decrease observed
that, even when respiration rate changed to two fold as a result of heavy breathing,
no temperature change was observed on the nose of the subjects (Nakayama et al.,
2005)”. p. 10 Temperature nose decrease is usually a phenomenon of vascular
constriction especially in an affective context.
Line 121: Data collection. Here you do not make explicit the angle in which the
frames were collected. Was it homogeneous or not? Does figure 1 represent different
individuals across the variable conditions? or the same individual, same angle across
all conditions? Also I understand that what I am asking here might be tricky because
of the complexity of the experiment and the difficulty in tracking free moving subjects
but can you provide the readers with the change in temperature once the chimp
moved away or towards the camera? Line 133: until the subject moved away for
more than 10 meters. How much was temperature affected over here? Was it
significant or not? Also between the extracted frames how much was the degree of
change?
Minor
Line 229, 233: “We found overall drops in nose temperatures.” Revise the sentence to
say decrease.
Line 238: Please go through the article by Vianna and Carrive (2005) Changes in
cutaneous and body temperature during and after conditioned fear to context in the
rat.
Line 249: Please stress the fact that the ears have been examined for the first time.
We are very grateful to you both for your encouraging and judicious editorial comments and to the
Reviewers for their interesting comments, on our manuscript.
We offer a detailed answer to the Reviewers’ comments below:
Responses to Referees (RSOS-160816)
Referee: 1
"1.1 This is an exciting and well-designed study showing how remote infrared remote thermography can
be successfully used in field conditions to study the effect of naturally occurring conspecific vocalisations
on chimpanzee skin temperature as a proxy of changes in their emotional states. This work is likely to
generate considerable interest and lead to further use of this method to study a variety of questions that
were previously logistically intractable outside the laboratory. My comments below require only relatively
minor revisions."
We would like to thank the Reviewer for his enthusiasm and for his very helpful comments.
"1.2 Methods & Discussion: Some further context for the subjects used for IRT would be helpful: age/sex
for each animal tested; were any of the females in oestrous/lactating/etc?; for males – were they
engaged in mating competition on any of the study days. I realise that these details would probably not
affect the results and analyses presented here but I think it would be important to give interested
readers better background on any social factors that might have been in play during image collection."
The Reviewer is right to say that social factors play a considerable role in shaping the emotional
responses (and therefore the thermal imprints) which follow exposure to vocalization and their
associated social context. We now provide a table (Table 1) with the list of participants, their sex and
their year of birth. It is yet difficult to address some other relevant social factors such as reproductive
state, dominance rank, number of friends in the community for we have not collected those data, that
our thermal series were collected at different times of the year and that these social parameters are
transient. We yet acknowledge that those social measures should be collected along thermal pictures in
future studies. Every social event indeed has a particular significance for every subject, depending on its
rank, role and social network in the community. This is stressed in lines 293-297 (Discussion section) of
the revised manuscript, where we encourage researchers to take those social factors into account for
future research.
"1.3 Perhaps it would be too speculative – but have you considered using differences in absolute
temperatures to investigate their relationship to such variable social conditions over different days? You
noted that external factors (e.g. temperature, humidity) make direct comparisons difficult –but I wonder
if you think this might be one potential avenue for future research, if adequate control variables are
included in statistical analysis (e.g. data on climatic variables and sunlight conditions for each image
recorded)?"
This indeed is a potential avenue for fruitful research, and we now encourage readers to include those
basic measurements in subsequent research (see lines 161-163). Those basic measurements need not
to include sunlight condition for thermal pictures under direct sunlight must be avoided, a rule we abide
by in this research.
"1.4 I would also be interested to read more in the Discussion section about your evaluation about the
potential future use of this method for investigating trait-like characteristics of individuals (as opposed to
state-like ones, that might be more transient). This is a very interesting study and probably I have too
many questions about the future applications of this method than space would allow you to address –
but in case you can provide some further thoughts on this, I am sure other readers would also find it
fascinating to read."
A study of ours (Dezecache et al., in preparation) has been examining changes in thermal imprint in
fertile and pregnant females. However, emotion-based changes are strictly transient (due to the nature
of the activity of the autonomic nervous system) and we expect that they should only be event-based
and not state-like. However, a promising avenue of research would consist in checking whether certain
animals are more responsive than others to aversive calls, for instance because they are more anxious
individuals. Since this is beyond the scope of our study and very speculative, we preferred not to discuss
this prediction but we reckon it is an interesting one.
Line-by-line comments:
"1.6 L18: Not entirely sure the phrase ‘recent’ is entirely justified given some of the papers on this topic,
and certainly some of the first examples of using remote measures of skin temperature, date back to the
1990s (and at least a few, to the late 1980s). This is subjective (personally, I try to reserve the term
to convey the growing enthusiasm for this line of research, without suggesting these methods did not
exist until fairly recently?"
We have now replaced the use of the word ‘recent’ by ‘growing’ to stress the idea that infra-red thermal
imaging is more and more used in psychophysiological research (line 15).
"1.7 L25 – 28: I suggest rephrasing this to emphasise the methodological contribution of this work
rather than claiming that the main contribution of this research is to suggest that vocalizations can
‘trigger emotional states’. Surely, this is not that novel an idea (although perhaps there is still debate
among some scholars on this topic… )? I think the key advance here is the use of IRT to accurately
quantify these changes in emotional states and thus contribute to a more rigorous study of rapid
physiological changes, associated with conspecific social interactions."
We have rephrased the sentence to read “Our study suggests that IRT can be used in wild animals to
quantify changes in emotional states in response to the diversity of vocalizations, their functional
significance and acoustical characteristics. We hope that it will contribute to more research on
physiological changes associated with social interactions in wild animals.”, see lines 22-25 of the revised
manuscript.
"1.8 L83: Shifts (plural)."
This has been corrected (see line 83).
"1.9 L89: A ‘systematic study’ is somewhat redundant. A study by definition should be systematic…
otherwise it’s not really a study, more a series of observations."
We have removed the term ‘systematic’ (see line 88).
"1.10 L92: Some barks may not be aversive in the way I am reading this definition here. E.g. food
barks/grunts/calls – while associated with a seemingly excited state of the calling animal are not
negative in nature (although may be associated with some anticipated competition and even aggression
once in the feeding tree, for example). Could you clarify here (or in the methods section: e.g. L136-137)
if you had any specific predictions regarding such vocalisations, or whether you excluded such calls from
the framework given here?"
We only used barks that happened in a seemingly aggressive contexts and this is now specified (line
142).
"1.11 L122: Given the broad audience of the journal, I’d suggest defining ‘party’ here for readers not
familiar with the fission-fusion grouping patterns in chimpanzees. And maybe even providing some
additional and relevant natural history information on this species in the Methods section for context."
We now define main party as “the largest group of individuals travelling and foraging together within a
30 metres radius”, line 127. We also provide more information on the social dynamics of the species
being studied in this research (lines 114-120).
"1.12 L176: “Main effect’ is not very informative as a subheading. Could you suggest something more
helpful?"
We changed the name of this subsection and it now reads “General pattern: before vs. after a
vocalization is produced” (see line 182).
"1.13 L182: Do you mean ‘for’ rather than ‘on’?"
This has been corrected (see line 187).
"1.14 L236: Change to ‘the most emotionally charged’"
This has been changed (see line 241).
"1.15 L241: The dog study you cite actually shows ear temperature decreased in response to separation
stress. Which is contrary to your finding for chimp ears. Dogs are more auditory-focused animals (I
think?) and do move their ears about a bit much more than chimps (from what I’ve seen). So would you
expect the same functional explanation for changes in ear temp to hold in the two species? Why or why
not? Overall I think the difference between results in ears and nose in this study are not explained to the
extent that I would have liked to see. It is perhaps too early to provide a definitive explanation but I
would like to push you a bit further in addressing this unexpected inconsistency. A more detailed
discussion of the dog study, in particular, might help in that respect. While they reported drops in
temperature upon separation (owner or other human leaves the room), they also show that increases in
ear temperature when the dog’s owner (or stranger) shows up. Given the well-known social function of
may not compare to what’s been shown in pet dogs? The dog paper also cites a chicken study with
similarly different results (temp goes up and down depending on circumstances). Perhaps also worth
considering in your discussion of your findings."
This is a very good point which we now address. To avoid being too speculative, we decided to mention
studies reporting conflicting patterns with the ears. We nonetheless avoided a direct comparison with
our own study because we are not sure our results can be directly compared. Please refer to lines 247 to
262.
"1.16 Fig. 1. I very much like being able to see the series as shown but maybe also worth including a
separate figure of a subpanel to this one which shows the face of a chimp in close up – the images are
tiny so would be nice to see a bigger-sized version of this as well (or maybe they are bigger in the actual
file submitted than the one I am able to view as part of the MS submission here?). Also – the #E is too
difficult to interpret what is actually happening - i.e. what position is the chimp in… As an additional
point, the green frame is a nice touch to allow seeing when the vocalisation occurred but are we
supposed to be able to visually detect a change in the colour before and after the frame? I can’t spot
much of a difference at this size/resolution. Maybe instead of showing multiple series, you could pick one
or two which provide the best illustration and have them in bigger size to allow more detailed
inspection.
We agree that the pictures were too small for readers to clearly interpret them. We now provide a new
figure (revised Fig. 1) with 3 series only, and a close-up on the face of the chimpanzees for each series.
However, we do not expect readers to be able to see changes in temperature as they are very subtle."
Reviewer: 2
"2.1 Emotions have a bidirectional union with behaviour in both human and non-human primates.
Physiology is the fuel that feeds this engine and it is important to be investigated. I particularly enjoyed
your study, the arguments in the introduction as well as the method of analyses and data extraction
used. In addition to this it is the first time that the thermal patterns of the ear have been studied. Nicely
presented overall. Please pay attention to the major comments made."
We would also like to thank Reviewer 2 for those helpful comments and her/his enthusiasm regarding
our research.
Major:
"2.2 Line 58: Changes in body surface temperature reflect shifts in blood flow to the surface of the skin,
a process that is controlled by the autonomic nervous system [16]. Can you please expand and explain
in two or three lines some of the physiological aspects of this change? (Ioannou et al., 2015 No Strings
attached). You can also explain this later on in the text."
We have expanded a bit on the physiological aspects of the changes in blood flow controlled by the
autonomic nervous system, see lines 55-56.
"2.3 Line 81: First, nasal temperature is largely affected by the breathing pattern, with increased
breathing causing significant and rapid cooling of the nose, a pattern of activity which might erratically
be associated with shift in the emotional state of the animal. There are arguments for and against
breathing artifacts. We have recently shown in a crying article that the decrease of the nose is not
related to a respiration increase (Ioannou et al., 2016) Sympathy Crying: Insights from Infrared
Thermal Imaging on a Female Sample. You can also include other articles that have examined for this
effect. I believe there might be a summary of this on the review by Ioannou et al., “Studies that
addressed this phenomenon of nasal temperature decrease observed that, even when respiration rate
changed to two fold as a result of heavy breathing, no temperature change was observed on the nose of
the subjects (Nakayama et al., 2005)”. p. 10 Temperature nose decrease is usually a phenomenon of
vascular constriction especially in an affective context."
We would like to thank the Reviewer for pointing this out. We now refer to Ioannou et al. 2016 (lines 78-
85) and we make it explicit that avoiding direct gaze is a better and more convincing rationale for
preferring the auricular region to the nasal one when working with wild chimpanzees.
"2.4 Line 121: Data collection. Here you do not make explicit the angle in which the frames were
collected. Was it homogeneous or not? Does figure 1 represent different individuals across the variable
conditions? or the same individual, same angle across all conditions? Also I understand that what I am
asking here might be tricky because of the complexity of the experiment and the difficulty in tracking
moved away or towards the camera?"
This is indeed an important limitation of our study: we were dealing with wild animals which typically
could move. However, we restricted movements to 10 consecutive meters, and we discarded photos for
which the ROI could not be reliably drawn. This is specified lines 137-140.
"2.5 Line 133: until the subject moved away for more than 10 meters. How much was temperature
affected over here? Was it significant or not? Also between the extracted frames how much was the
degree of change?"
When the subject was moving more than ten metres away, we stopped the thermal data collection since
we were not then able to provide photos unaffected by a pattern of large movement. For this reason, we
are not able to report the data for those series. Since a confusion emerged for the Reviewer regarding
this data collection rule, we made it clearer and more explicit (lines 137-138).
Minor
"2.6 Line 229, 233: “We found overall drops in nose temperatures.” Revise the sentence to say
decrease."
This has been changed and all occurrences of ‘drops’ regarding our own results have been replaced by
“decreases”.
"2.7 Line 238: Please go through the article by Vianna and Carrive (2005) Changes in cutaneous and
body temperature during and after conditioned fear to context in the rat."
We would like to thank the Reviewer for referring to this study that we now cite and discussed at various
parts of the manuscript (in particular, lines 56, 247, 252 and 255).
"2.8 Line 249: Please stress the fact that the ears have been examined for the first time."
We actually found a recent study [1] which used temperature changes over the ear to examine distress
in dogs, and which was discussed in our original manuscript. We now expand on this (lines 247 to 262).
Bibliography
1. Riemer, S., Assis, L., Pike, T. W. & Mills, D. S. 2016 Dynamic changes in ear temperature in relation
to separation distress in dogs. Physiol. Behav. 167, 86–91.
Society Open
