Lack of experience-based stratification in homing pigeon
leadership hierarchies
Isobel Watts, Benjamin Pettit, Máté Nagy, Theresa Burt de Perera and Dora Biro
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150518.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150518
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 June 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 29 September 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 17 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 3 December 2015
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150298.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The question the authors address – the effect of local experience on leadership in pigeon flocks -
really deserves a thorough analysis, but, sorry, I still think that the distances and in particular the
differences in local experience of the pigeons in this study are too small to allow a meaningful
assessment; this probably accounts for the largely negative results. The observation that some
pigeons are leaders more frequently than others does not really go beyond what the Swiss author
Wagner (e.g. 1974: Experiencia 30; 1975: Z. Tierpsychol. 39 and 1982: Rev. Suisse Zool 89) already
reported 50 years ago.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
"We will upload data to Dryad on acceptance."
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The introduction lays out the importance of this particular study fairly well. The findings (or lack
thereof) seemed somewhat interesting to me. Its too bad that Phase I tracks were sparse because
because, like reviewer 1, I was also interested in the how the hierarchical structure played out
over time. I only have one small comment for a suggested change, almost not worth mentioning:
Line 221 By "normalized velocity" I assume that you take the velocity vector x' (usually denoted v
itself) and then divide it by its magnitude, x'/|x'|. This could be stated briefly to be self
contained.
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Overall this paper is well written and reports a set of well designed experiments. The results are
clear and conclusions are appropriately drawn for the most part. The key issue is just how
familiar the pigeons are with the surrounding area. Please see comments below for elaboration of
this.
Methods: Call phase 1 “training phase” and phase 2 “testing phase” for ease of reference later.
Line 155. I think you need to be cautious here. At least one site is only 60 degrees different from
home as a previous release, so I don’t think you can rule out familiarity in this case. I am not
convinced that increase in route fidelity necessarily means increase in familiarity. It may just
mean a switch in the type of landmark strategy being used (e.g. see evidence in rats that there is a
switch in strategy from “place” to “response/habit”). Without evidence that the pigeons have not
ranged out this far caution is also warranted from the other site.
Line 313. You would only know that this was a trend that was approaching significance if you
collected more data and the p value became lower. If you collected more data and the p value
became higher then it would be a trend that was retreating from significance. Reword this to say
that although lower ranked birds tended to be inexperienced ones this was not significant.
Discussion: again, the issue of familiarity should be discussed. The “experience” may indicate
differences in strategy rather than knowledge, and so this should be incorporated.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150298)
04-Aug-2015
Dear Miss Watts:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150298 entitled "Lack of experience-based stratification in homing pigeon
leadership hierarchies" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed.
The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
4
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 01-Feb-2016. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150298)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150518.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It would have been desirable to also show the tracks
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
I am still not happy with this paper. It is a long, verbose paper with rather meagre results.
5
One of the main weakness is the short distance of the release sites, which lies still within the
range of spontaneous flights, thus minimizing any difference in experience. The authors’
discussion to this point is not convincing. Also, the description of the testing procedure is
unclear: On the one hand, they emphasize that the unfamiliar group had never been released
from the test site before, on the other hand, they appear to have released them more than once in
the critical tests from the respective site, as they speak about eight testing releases, while they
have only four groups, two for each site. Also, the accuracy of the GPS fixes is not given.
The introduction and discussion is rather focused on the pigeon work of their own group, largely
ignoring former flock studies with other means (e.g. Wagner 1982: Rev. Suisse Zool. 89; Jorge et
al. 2012: J. Exp. Biol. 215).
Altogether, I am not sure that these findings give us true information on leadership and its
dependence on local experience; the results may have been very different if they had used bird
with truly different experience from more distant sites.
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors have addressed my concerns in this new manuscript, in particular, making an
excellent rebuttal to my excellent point on familiarity vs strategy. I agree with the authors that we
are witnessing a change in behaviour based on change in experience.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150518)
27-Oct-2015
Dear Miss Watts,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Lack of experience-based stratification in homing
pigeon leadership hierarchies") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you
6
to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
As you will see reviewer 1 is still concerned about the short distance of release sites. To address
these concerns please ensure that your full justification for these release sites is included in your
manuscript. Please also ensure that your introduction and discussion sections are expanded to
include the references suggested by the reviewer.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 19-Nov-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to each of the comments, and the adjustments you have
made. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as
possible in your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150518
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
7
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150518)
See Appendix B.
Isobel Watts 
Department of Zoology 
University of Oxford 
South Parks Road 
Oxford OX1 3PS 
UK 
28.08.2015 
Dear Dr Aime, 
Thank you for forwarding us the three referees’ comments on our manuscript 
entitled “Lack of experience-­-based stratification in homing pigeon leadership 
hierarchies” (RSOS-­-150298). We are grateful to the referees for their advice and 
have revised our paper according to their recommendations. We outline our 
responses below. We hope that with these alterations you will deem our 
manuscript suitable for publication. 
Many thanks for your consideration and we look forward to hearing from you. 
Yours sincerely, 
Isobel Watts 
(on behalf of all co-­-authors) 
Responses to Referees’ Comments (Manuscript ID RSOS-­-150298) 
Reviewer 1: 
The question the authors address – the effect of local experience on leadership in 
pigeon flocks -­-really deserves a thorough analysis, but, sorry, I still think that the 
distances and in particular the differences in local experience of the pigeons in this 
study are too small to allow a meaningful assessment; this probably accounts for 
the largely negative results. The observation that some pigeons are leaders more 
frequently than others does not really go beyond what the Swiss author Wagner 
(e.g. 1974: Experiencia 30; 1975: Z. Tierpsychol. 39 and 1982: Rev. Suisse Zool 89) 
already reported 50 years ago. 
 
We thank the Reviewer for his or her two points, which we will take in turn to 
discuss. 
 
1. Although the Reviewer is of course right that there is a wide range of distances 
over which homing pigeons can, and have been, tested, we maintain that ours 
does not fall outside the range that can be meaningfully interpreted. Indeed, 
movements on the scale we studied are much more likely to resemble pigeons’ 
regular daily foraging movements under natural conditions than are distances of 
many 10s of kilometres, and hence cannot be disregarded as uninformative. But 
just as importantly, as we argued in our previous response letter, there are 
numerous studies that demonstrate that even at the distances we use in our 
experiments, there are highly significant effects of experience observable, and 
these are crucial to our study’s relevance. Release a locally inexperienced bird 
for the first time from a site at a similar distance to ours, and it will fly a tortuous, 
2-­-6 times longer route than the beeline (see, for example, Meade et al 2005 -­- the 
first paper quantifying the development of route recapitulation from distances of 
~5 km). In our case, birds flew on average 4.78 times longer routes than the 
beeline, equating to around 46.6 km of extra distance per bird. Now release the 
bird 10-­-20 more times, and it will gradually develop a much shorter, more 
efficient route. Both of these are highly robust effects, reproduced reliably in 
every experiment so far conducted under comparable conditions to ours 
(Guilford and Biro 2014). While a switch in strategy (as suggested by Reviewer 3, 
below) is also possible, the scale of the improvement suggests that some degree 
of learning is indeed happening, and that in either case experience levels are 
indeed significantly different between our two treatment groups. In addition, 
inexperienced and experienced birds are significantly different in terms of a 
performance measure (route efficiency) and hence parallels between our 
situation and the “merit-­-based” hypothesis for hierarchical structuring we 
discuss are evident. To address the excellent point raised by Reviewer 3, we 
have, throughout the manuscript replaced “naïve” with “inexperienced” (e.g. 
lines 127, 166 and 171) and have included a discussion of increases in familiarity 
vs changes in navigational strategy as a result of the differences in experience. 
We hope these also address sufficiently the concerns of Reviewer 1. 
 
2. We are rather baffled by this dismissive comment. There are several 
profile papers that have been published over the past 5 years dealing with the 
subject of leadership in pigeons) and papers the referee cites. 
 
First, technology. Wagner used a helicopter to visually observe which pigeon in a 
flock was positioned at the front, and which further behind, in small flocks. We, 
in contrast, obtain high-­-resolution GPS data (5 fixes a second, with an accuracy of 
1-­-2m) – no such data were available 50 years ago. It is precisely this recent 
explosion in on-­-board sensor technology that has caused a revolution in our 
understanding of avian navigation, including collective navigation, over the past 
few years (Guilford et al. 2011). Visual observation simply cannot reveal birds’ 
flight behaviour in as much detail as our GPS data, as the human eye is not 
capable of detecting temporal relationships between different birds’ movements 
with sufficient resolution. 
 
Second, quantitative treatment of data and inferences. Wagner used the spatial 
positions of birds to assign leadership (where front=leader). We use a much 
more sensitive measure: temporal delays between different birds’ small-­-scale 
directional changes. While leadership thus measured generally correlates with 
spatial position in the flock, it is not the same, and demonstrates that birds can 
also lead not-­-from-­-the-­-front – a phenomenon that was invisible to Wagner. In 
addition, also invisible to him was the delicate hierarchical organization of 
leadership first identified in 2010 through high-­-resolution GPS tracking and 
sophisticated statistical-­-physics-­-inspired analysis (see e.g. Nagy, et al. 2010), 
which forms the basis of our paper. 
 
Third, experimental design. Wagner did not experimentally manipulate 
experience in the birds he studied, therefore his experiments simply do not 
speak to the same question we are investigating. As such, the Reviewer’s 
comment further loses its relevance as it ignores the actual focus of our paper. 
 
In all, we respectfully appeal to the Editor to look beyond this comment and 
judge the value of our manuscript on its own experimental design, technological 
merit and novel inferences. 
 
 
Reviewer 2: 
The introduction lays out the importance of this particular study fairly well. The 
findings (or lack thereof) seemed somewhat interesting to me. Its too bad that 
Phase I tracks were sparse because, like reviewer 1, I was also interested in the how 
the hierarchical structure played out over time. I only have one small comment for 
a suggested change, almost not worth mentioning: 
Line 221 By "normalized velocity" I assume that you take the velocity vector x' 
(usually denoted v itself) and then divide it by its magnitude, x'/|x'|. This could be 
stated briefly to be self contained. 
 
We thank the Reviewer for their positive comments and agree it is unfortunate 
the training flights are not better documented. The assumption about normalized 
velocity is correct and we have added this to the manuscript (line 229-­-230). 
 
Reviewer 3: 
Methods: Call phase 1 “training phase” and phase 2 “testing phase” for ease of 
reference later. 
 
We have changed phase 1 to “training phase” and phase 2 to “testing phase” 
throughout the manuscript (e.g. lines 170, 177and 185). 
 
Line 155. I think you need to be cautious here. At least one site is only 60 degrees 
different from home as a previous release, so I don’t think you can rule out 
familiarity in this case. I am not convinced that increase in route fidelity necessarily 
means increase in familiarity. It may just mean a switch in the type of landmark 
strategy being used (e.g. see evidence in rats that there is a switch in strategy from 
“place” to “response/habit”). Without evidence that the pigeons have not ranged 
out this far caution is also warranted from the other site. 
 
The issue of familiarity verses navigational strategy is a very interesting one, and 
we thank the Reviewer for suggesting it. We agree that this is a relevant aspect of 
our experiment, and we have modified the text here (lines 160-­-163), have 
replaced “naïve” with “inexperienced” throughout the manuscript (see below for 
explanation), and have added a paragraph to the Discussion (lines 348-­-360). 
 
A similar point – querying how inexperienced birds really were at the start of 
our experiment – was raised by Reviewer 1, and in response to him/her we 
outlined our reasons for why we believe we are dealing with learning (please see 
response to point 1 of Reviewer 1, above). In addition, although we have been 
unable to find any papers on the spontaneous ranging habits of non-­-feral homing 
pigeons, the limited information that exists for feral pigeons suggests that urban 
pigeons living in lofts only travel a maximum of 5.29 km on foraging trips and 
only 7.5% have been documented to fly over 2 km (e.g. Rose and Nagel 2006). 
These flights are foraging trips, and given our pigeons do not need to forage 
(food is available ad libitum in our lofts), they are likely to be overestimates for 
our case. We also note that while the site that is only 60 degrees from a 
previously visited site is >12km away. 
 
Having said that, the issue of experience vs familiarity that Reviewer 3 raises is a 
more nuanced one. Even if birds were not entirely unfamiliar with the release 
sites, the effect of training is still manifest in large changes in route structure. 
The Reviewer is right, and we cannot necessarily distinguish between familiarity 
and strategy switch. Nonetheless, we feel we can justifiably call this an effect of 
“experience” since the added flights were the trigger for these changes – whether 
in strategy or in learning – and caused significant increases in route efficiency. In 
other words, the changes in routes and their efficiencies are key to inferring 
changes in experience, even if not in familiarity. We now discuss this explicitly in 
the Discussion (lines 348-­-360). 
 
Line 313. You would only know that this was a trend that was approaching 
significance if you collected more data and the p value became lower. If you 
was retreating from significance. Reword this to say that although lower ranked 
birds tended to be inexperienced ones this was not significant. 
 
We agree with the referee and have reworded the section (line 322). 
 
Discussion: again, the issue of familiarity should be discussed. The “experience” may 
indicate differences in strategy rather than knowledge, and so this should be 
incorporated. 
 
As above, we agree with the referee that experience may manifest itself in a 
change in strategy rather than in learning, if birds are not unfamiliar with the 
release sites at the start of the experiment. Nonetheless, either way the changes 
seen in routes as a function of training can be interpreted as our experimental 
design having given our two treatment groups different levels of “experience”. 
Furthermore, the increase in route efficiencies as a function of training also 
further supports the idea that there are “merit”-­-based differences between the 
two treatment groups. A new paragraph in the Discussion (lines 348-­-360) now 
expands on the Reviewer’s point. 
 
 
References cited: 
 
Guilford, T., S. Akesson, A. Gagliardo, R. A. Holland, H. Mouritsen, R. Muheim, R. 
Wiltschko, W. Wiltschko and V. P. Bingman (2011). "Migratory navigation in 
birds: new opportunities in an era of fast-­-developing tracking technology." 
Journal of Experimental Biology 214(22): 3705-­-3712. 
 
Guilford, T. and D. Biro (2014). "Route following and the pigeon's familiar area 
map." Journal of Experimental Biology 217(2): 169-­-179. 
 
Meade, J., D. Biro and T. Guilford (2005). “Homing pigeons develop local route 
stereotypy.” Proceedings of the Royal Society B-­-Biological Sciences 272(1558): 
17-­-23. 
 
Nagy, M., Z. Akos, D. Biro and T. Vicsek (2010). "Hierarchical group dynamics in 
pigeon flocks." Nature 464(7290): 890-­-U899. 
 
Rose, E. and P. Nagel (2006). "Spatio-­-temporal use of the urban habitat by feral 
pigeons (Columba livia)." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 60(2): 242-­-254. 
Isobel Watts
Department of Zoology
University of Oxford
South Parks Road
Oxford OX1 3PS
UK
16.11.2015
Dear Dr Aime,
We thank you for giving us the opportunity to revise our manuscript “Lack of
experience-based stratification in homing pigeon leadership hierarchies”
(RSOS-150518), and the Reviewers and the Subject Editor for their useful
comments on our earlier revisions. We outline our responses to these
comments below.
Other than the requested clarifications, we have made only one additional
change to the manuscript: another paper from our lab has recently been
accepted for publication (Pettit et al. Curr Biol, in press) and its results are
relevant to our experiments. We have therefore updated the paragraph
introducing our rationale (Lines 99-104) to include this paper, and added it to
our reference list (reference 23). It is also mentioned in the Discussion (Lines
411 -414).
We hope that with these alterations you will deem our manuscript suitable for
publication.
Many thanks for your consideration and we look forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Isobel Watts
(on behalf of all co-authors)
Subject Editor:
As you will see reviewer 1 is still concerned about the short distance of
release sites. To address these concerns please ensure that your full
justification for these release sites is included in your manuscript.
We thank the Editor for suggesting how we should address the reviewer’s
concerns. As requested, we have added a full justification for the release sites
that we selected to the methods section (Lines 169-173).
Please also ensure that your introduction and discussion sections are
expanded to include the references suggested by the reviewer.
We have expanded both the introduction and discussion to include the papers
suggested by Reviewer 1 (see below for detail).
Reviewer 1:
One of the main weakness is the short distance of the release sites, which lies
still within the range of spontaneous flights, thus minimizing any difference in
experience. The authors’ discussion to this point is not convincing. Also, the
description of the testing procedure is unclear: On the one hand, they
emphasize that the unfamiliar group had never been released from the test
site before, on the other hand, they appear to have released them more than
once in the critical tests from the respective site, as they speak about eight
testing releases, while they have only four groups, two for each site.
As noted above, we have added a full justification for the release sites in the
methods section. We have summarized the extensive evidence that our
crucial variable - navigational experience – is affected by training, and that
such effects are clearly observable in the GPS tracks.
Also, the accuracy of the GPS fixes is not given.
Average GPS error for the commercially available units we used is 1.69 m,
with the 95th percentile at 4.33 m (Pettit et al. 2013, J Roy Soc Interface). This
information has been added to the manuscript (Lines 208). However, it is also
worth noting that exact spatial positioning is not vital for the leadership
analysis. Nagy et al (2010, Nature) showed in a series of validation tests that
even with artificially introducing noise of up to 10 m radius around each data
point, the directional correlation delay method is able to detect the original
leadership hierarchy accurately. This is because it relies on relative shifts in
direction (which GPS reproduces very accurately) rather than absolute
positioning. Thus the method – identical to that used in our paper – is highly
robust in detecting the true underlying structure of the leadership hierarchy,
well beyond the levels of absolute spatial error introduced by the devices.
own group, largely ignoring former flock studies with other means (e.g.
Wagner 1982: Rev. Suisse Zool. 89; Jorge et al. 2012: J. Exp. Biol. 215).
We have added these references to the introduction (Line 92) and the
discussion (see Line 408 and 419).
Reviewer 3:
The authors have addressed my concerns in this new manuscript, in
particular, making an excellent rebuttal to my excellent point on familiarity vs
strategy. I agree with the authors that we are witnessing a change in
behaviour based on change in experience.
We thank the Reviewer for their very positive comment.
References
Nagy, M., Akos, Z., Biro, D., Vicsek, T. 2010 Hierarchical group dynamics in
pigeon flocks. Nature. 464, 890-U899. (Doi 10.1038/Nature08891)
Pettit, B., Perna, A., Biro, D., Sumpter, D. 2013 Interaction rules underlying
group decisions in homing pigeons J R Soc Interface.
 
Society Open
