A glimpse of an ancient agricultural ecosystem based on
remains of micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
Tal Fried, Lior Weissbrod, Yotam Tepper and Guy Bar-Oz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171528.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171528
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171528.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This study considers assemblages of small vertebrate bones recovered from archaeological sites
as the first direct line evidence to examine the impact of agricultural practices in the Negev in the
4th to 7th centuries. The study makes a good taphonomic case that the principal vector of
accumulation of the archaeological material was through the regurgitation of skeletonised prey of
owls, before moving on to consider the palaeoenvironmental implications of identified small taxa
– principally gerbils and jirds. In terms of the palaeoenvironmental reconstruction, a particular
strength of this study is the (measured) comparison of the archaeological data with results from
surveys of extant small mammals and recent owl pellet assemblages in the Negev. The authors
conclude that anthropogenic impact on the Byzantine landscapes of the Negev is reflected by
taxonomic representation of Gerbillus spp. and Meriones spp. in the (archaeological) owl pellet
assemblages, which has no analogue in the modern data sets and is interpreted to reflect the
impact of agricultural and irrigation practices on local habitats.
With some careful editing, the paper would be relatively easy to follow for a general audience - it
would benefit from some restructuring and revision, particular towards the latter end of the
manuscript as the discussion can be difficult to follow in places. The references appear to be in
good order.
There are, however, several major issues with the content that I feel require revision and
clarification (major points are included in General Comments, attached) - but while this may
seem laborious, I feel that it would be straightforward for the authors to address them. I would
support the publication of this submission on the condition of revision. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Terry O'Connor)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an interesting piece of work, which achieves its relatively modest aims and does so with
care. The text could probably be shortened a little by editing for repeated statements, for example
concerning the relationship of taxon distribution to precipitation and soils. The discussion could
3
consider the Byzantine irrigated environment in terms of a mosaic of microhabitat patches, and
what that would imply in terms of overall species richness and equitability. That is somewhat
implicit in the text but could be made clearer.
A few specific points -
P3, 6-7: “Because of an absence of palaeoenvironmental data which are obtained directly
from….”. Grammatical point. This needs to be “…that are obtained from…” or simply
“…obtained from…”.
P4, 34: it’s a small point, but could you indicate the species of ‘pigeon’? Columba livia or a
Streptopelia species?
P5, 15: “was as well built…”. Suggest “was also built…” to avoid confusion with e.g. “a well-built
structure…”.
P5, 43-4: “Age was also assessed based on epiphyseal fusion in long bones.” Given that full
epiphyseal fusion may only occur late in life in some rodent taxa (e.g. Rattus), it would be helpful
to have reference here to the sources used in this particular analysis.
P6, 28-30: “revealed wide ranges of variation (SDgerbils = 0.2 mm; SDjirds = 0.2 mm)..”. First, SD
isn’t a ‘range’. Second, SD values only indicate the degree of variability when seen in proportion
to the mean. Suggest replacing SD here with Coefficient of Variability (100SD/mean).
P11, 52-4: “because longevity is extended among commensal species with high access to food
resources and reduced pressure from predators.” Maybe add a few words to make clear that this
is broadly true for rodents, but not for commensal mammals in general. Foxes, for example, show
the opposite longevity effect.
P11 general thought: might (omnivorous) house mice have entered the dovecotes to scavenge
bird corpses?
P12, 3rd/4th paragraphs somewhat repeat what the paper has already said about gerbil/jird
association with precipitation and soils.
P13, 50-55: worth commenting here that spiny mice are facultative commensals. That is implied in
the text but not made explicit.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (David Orton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
4
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is a very intersting and worthwhile study, that addresses a remarkable historical
phenomenon - the Byzantine cultivation of the Negev desert - through an appropriate but
relatively unusual line of evidence: small mammal remains. The authors make appropriately
conservative use of statistics in order to compare the archaeological material with modern
ecological data, correctly noting when these cannot be directly compared. Their approach to these
comparisons is ultimately something of a work-around, but I think that's unavoidable, and the
results are convincing.
I believe this is suitable for publication in more-or-less its present form. However, I do have a few
minor suggestions that might help to improve the paper:
1. Page 5 line 16: micromammal remains were "pulled" from samples. It would be good to replace
this with a clearer and more detailed description of the procedures involved, particularly for the
more uninitiated reader - one would assume wet sieving?
2. Page 6 line 30: the authors use standard deviations to illustrate their point about variability in
size. Wouldn't coefficients of variation be more appropriate here?
3. Page 7, line 46: chi-squared testing "shows a significant similarity". Pedantically, one can't show
a significant similarity, only fail to show a significant difference. I don't object to the
interpretation here, but I think the wording needs to be tweaked slightly - minimally removing
the word 'significant', but perhaps also replacing 'shows' with something slightly weaker like
'suggests' or even 'indicates'.
4. Page 9, lines 9-12: there's a bit of ambiguity in the suggestion that ancient rodents "underwent a
southward shift" relative to modern ones. I read this as meaning that the distribution used to
extend further south, but in this case the shift is really northward.
5. Page 11, line 43: "wander around" is a bit informal - reword with something more technical?
6. When discussing the question of raptor pellets, abandonment, and commensal taxa, I was a bit
suprised that the authors didn't refer to Bea de Cupere's work on owl pellets from 6th/7th C
Sagalassos (DOI: 10.1002/oa.965) - could be an interesting comparison.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171528)
10-Nov-2017
Dear Mrs Fried
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171528 entitled
"A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on Remains of Micromammals in the
Byzantine Negev Desert" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject
to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
at the end of this email.
5
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171528
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
6
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
7
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
This paper records the presence of jirds and gerbils in dovecotes from the Byzantine sites of
Shivta and Sa'adon in nearly equal frequencies in owl pellets argues for the role of agriculture as
these two species do not occur together today in the Negev.
All three reviewers are in broad agreement that the paper should be published, and have a
number of useful suggestions for clarification. However, Referee #3 thinks that it would be
useful to have the raw data available, although they note that the data tables will be sufficient for
further analysis. He is also concerned regarding the accessibility of the Weissbrod 2016
(unpublished data). Referee #2 is concerned about the use of the Chi-square test which should
use actual frequencies, but the variable (MNI) is proportion converted to a percentage.
Please see attached file
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This study considers assemblages of small vertebrate bones recovered from archaeological sites
as the first direct line evidence to examine the impact of agricultural practices in the Negev in the
4th to 7th centuries. The study makes a good taphonomic case that the principal vector of
accumulation of the archaeological material was through the regurgitation of skeletonised prey of
owls, before moving on to consider the palaeoenvironmental implications of identified small taxa
– principally gerbils and jirds. In terms of the palaeoenvironmental reconstruction, a particular
strength of this study is the (measured) comparison of the archaeological data with results from
surveys of extant small mammals and recent owl pellet assemblages in the Negev. The authors
conclude that anthropogenic impact on the Byzantine landscapes of the Negev is reflected by
taxonomic representation of Gerbillus spp. and Meriones spp. in the (archaeological) owl pellet
assemblages, which has no analogue in the modern data sets and is interpreted to reflect the
impact of agricultural and irrigation practices on local habitats.
With some careful editing, the paper would be relatively easy to follow for a general audience - it
would benefit from some restructuring and revision, particular towards the latter end of the
manuscript as the discussion can be difficult to follow in places. The references appear to be in
good order.
There are, however, several major issues with the content that I feel require revision and
clarification (major points are included in General Comments, attached) - but while this may
seem laborious, I feel that it would be straightforward for the authors to address them. I would
support the publication of this submission on the condition of revision.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting piece of work, which achieves its relatively modest aims and does so with
care. The text could probably be shortened a little by editing for repeated statements, for example
concerning the relationship of taxon distribution to precipitation and soils. The discussion could
consider the Byzantine irrigated environment in terms of a mosaic of microhabitat patches, and
what that would imply in terms of overall species richness and equitability. That is somewhat
implicit in the text but could be made clearer.
A few specific points -
8
P3, 6-7: “Because of an absence of palaeoenvironmental data which are obtained directly
from….”. Grammatical point. This needs to be “…that are obtained from…” or simply
“…obtained from…”.
P4, 34: it’s a small point, but could you indicate the species of ‘pigeon’? Columba livia or a
Streptopelia species?
P5, 15: “was as well built…”. Suggest “was also built…” to avoid confusion with e.g. “a well-built
structure…”.
P5, 43-4: “Age was also assessed based on epiphyseal fusion in long bones.” Given that full
epiphyseal fusion may only occur late in life in some rodent taxa (e.g. Rattus), it would be helpful
to have reference here to the sources used in this particular analysis.
P6, 28-30: “revealed wide ranges of variation (SDgerbils = 0.2 mm; SDjirds = 0.2 mm)..”. First, SD
isn’t a ‘range’. Second, SD values only indicate the degree of variability when seen in proportion
to the mean. Suggest replacing SD here with Coefficient of Variability (100SD/mean).
P11, 52-4: “because longevity is extended among commensal species with high access to food
resources and reduced pressure from predators.” Maybe add a few words to make clear that this
is broadly true for rodents, but not for commensal mammals in general. Foxes, for example, show
the opposite longevity effect.
P11 general thought: might (omnivorous) house mice have entered the dovecotes to scavenge
bird corpses?
P12, 3rd/4th paragraphs somewhat repeat what the paper has already said about gerbil/jird
association with precipitation and soils.
P13, 50-55: worth commenting here that spiny mice are facultative commensals. That is implied in
the text but not made explicit.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very intersting and worthwhile study, that addresses a remarkable historical
phenomenon - the Byzantine cultivation of the Negev desert - through an appropriate but
relatively unusual line of evidence: small mammal remains. The authors make appropriately
conservative use of statistics in order to compare the archaeological material with modern
ecological data, correctly noting when these cannot be directly compared. Their approach to these
comparisons is ultimately something of a work-around, but I think that's unavoidable, and the
results are convincing.
I believe this is suitable for publication in more-or-less its present form. However, I do have a few
minor suggestions that might help to improve the paper:
1. Page 5 line 16: micromammal remains were "pulled" from samples. It would be good to replace
this with a clearer and more detailed description of the procedures involved, particularly for the
more uninitiated reader - one would assume wet sieving?
2. Page 6 line 30: the authors use standard deviations to illustrate their point about variability in
size. Wouldn't coefficients of variation be more appropriate here?
3. Page 7, line 46: chi-squared testing "shows a significant similarity". Pedantically, one can't show
a significant similarity, only fail to show a significant difference. I don't object to the
9
interpretation here, but I think the wording needs to be tweaked slightly - minimally removing
the word 'significant', but perhaps also replacing 'shows' with something slightly weaker like
'suggests' or even 'indicates'.
4. Page 9, lines 9-12: there's a bit of ambiguity in the suggestion that ancient rodents "underwent a
southward shift" relative to modern ones. I read this as meaning that the distribution used to
extend further south, but in this case the shift is really northward.
5. Page 11, line 43: "wander around" is a bit informal - reword with something more technical?
6. When discussing the question of raptor pellets, abandonment, and commensal taxa, I was a bit
suprised that the authors didn't refer to Bea de Cupere's work on owl pellets from 6th/7th C
Sagalassos (DOI: 10.1002/oa.965) - could be an interesting comparison.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171528)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171528.R1)
27-Nov-2017
Dear Mrs Fried,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A Glimpse of an Ancient Agricultural
Ecosystem based on Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert" is now accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
10
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Matthew Collins (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
label_version_2
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
Reviewers report
Summary
This study considers assemblages of small vertebrate bones recovered from archaeological
sites as the first direct line evidence to examine the impact of agricultural practices in the
Negev in the 4th to 7th centuries. The study makes a good taphonomic case that the principal
vector of accumulation of the archaeological material was through the regurgitation of
skeletonised prey of owls, before moving on to consider the palaeoenvironmental
implications of identified small taxa – principally gerbils and jirds. In terms of the
palaeoenvironmental reconstruction, a particular strength of this study is the (measured)
comparison of the archaeological data with results from surveys of extant small mammals
and recent owl pellet assemblages in the Negev. The authors conclude that anthropogenic
impact on the Byzantine landscapes of the Negev is reflected by taxonomic representation of
Gerbillus spp. and Meriones spp. in the (archaeological) owl pellet assemblages, which has
no analogue in the modern data sets and is interpreted to reflect the impact of agricultural
and irrigation practices on local habitats.
Overall, the paper is well written and would be relatively easy to follow for a general
audience, although would benefit from some restructuring and revision, particular towards
the latter end of the manuscript – the discussion can be difficult to follow in places. The
references appear to be in good order. There are issues with the content that I feel require
revision and clarification (major points are included in General Comments, below) - but I
feel that it would be straightforward for the authors to address these. I would support the
publication of this submission on the condition of revision.
General comments
1) Chronology, time-averaging and the use of the term “snapshot”
The age of the assemblages is inferred from cultural remains recovered in the excavated
structures and wider archaeological understanding of the region. I have, however, concerns
on the chronological context of this materials (this bears directly on the title of the
manuscript):
i) The archaeological material is dated, by reference to cultural materials, to the 4th-
7th century, so a period of say 300 to 400 years (but see point 2, below)? This
date is perhaps rather broad to be referred to as a “snapshot”, particularly from
the perspective of an ecologist (this can be a loaded term from a palaeozoological
perspective, too). There is no way, on the current evidence presented in the paper,
of determining time-averaging or rates of accumulation of the archaeological
material, so I would recommend the use of an alternative title:
e.g. “Insights on an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem…..” or similar.
ii) The stratigraphic descriptions require expansion and clarification. The structures
from which the archaeological material was recovered were dated to the
Byzantine period (based on associated cultural materials). The archaeological
assemblages, however, were recovered from sedimentary units associated with
abandonment of these structures. If I have understood correctly, the
abandonment layers are in superposition and post-date occupation? Or was there
more than one horizon at each site? The cultural material, then, would only give a
maximum ages for the pellet assemblages. In the absence of direct dates (e.g.
14C), how confident can we be that the pellet assemblages are indeed Byzantine
and do not post-date this period (or represent an admixture of the two – see point
label_version_3
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
iii?). It is difficult for the reader to assess the stratigraphic relationships of the
“human abandonment” and “human use” layers from the brief description
provided (a paragraph in section 1.1). The addition of a figure with annotated
section drawings or at least annotated profile photographs from the trenches,
with a more robust explanation in section 1.1 (Sites and setting) was be a
welcome addition and increase confidence in the conclusions.
iii) The main argument of the paper is that the presence of jirds and gerbils, in nearly
equal frequencies (which have no analogue in the modern reference data sets), in
the archaeological owl pellet assemblages reflect the impact of agriculture and
irrigation, which provided amenable habitats for jirds. With little information on
the degree to which the assemblages could be time-averaged or rates of
accumulation in the paper (I accept these factors can be difficult to assess) it
could be argued that the recovered material may represent a temporal admixture:
e.g. the assemblages reflect owls hunting in habitats where the effects of irrigation
etc. are still “in operation” with an increase in capture of jirds, mixed with pellets
from later periods, after abandonment, with an increase in the presence and
capture of gerbils associated with a return to arid habitats.
I suspect that the dovecote assemblages may be temporally constrained and I also note that
there is a brief treatment of this issue in the discussion (Page 11, lines 12-35), but it is
inconclusive. I feel that the arguments presented in the manuscript would be strengthened if
the stratigraphic/contextual integrity of the archaeological assemblages could be better
established.
2) Climatic versus anthropogenic impacts
In its current form, the manuscript does not discuss the possible impact of climate change on
the Negev in any detail. Rather, there is the (implicit) focus on anthropogenic impact
through agricultural activities. I would recommend removing the emphasis from climatic
mechanisms:
“Hence, micromammalian remains collected directly from the archaeological contexts can
provide an especially useful for reconstructing such conditions for the period of intense
Byzantine human activity. Here, we examine the potential of this unique proxy record as a
tool for teasing apart climatic and anthropogenic impacts on the dynamics of the ancient
Negev agro-ecosystem”
See comments and suggestions.
3) Terminology
There are instances of the use of relative terms in the paper, which at times makes can make
statements rather vague. These terms detract from the study and could be replaced with
more precise language, without compromising the content. See comments and suggested
revisions.
4) Methods and Data
Shannon H indices are included in Table 1, but there is no mention of this approach in the
manuscript. There doesn’t appear to be a direct reference to Table 2 in the manuscript.
Comparisons of tooth row measurements (from gerbils and jirds) with reference materials
are mentioned in the methods section but, with the exception of number of observations and
standard deviations (?), are not reported in the results.
label_version_4
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
“jirds/gerbils index”. This forms the crux of the palaeoenvironmental arguments, later in the
manuscript. There is no mention of this approach in the methods section, its utility or why it
is employed. I accept that this is a straightforward calculation but given that it forms the
basis of the palaeoenvironmental arguments, calculation and application should be
described in the methods.
The results of t-tests and standard deviations of indices are reported throughout the
discussion of the trapping assemblages – if these data are already reported in a separate
publication, reiteration of the statistical output is perhaps not necessary – just state the
findings. If these data are novel, then they should be included. It would benefit the
manuscript if there was discussion of these treatments in the Methods.
5) Statistical Analyses
There is no reference to conventional texts, or software packages that were employed to run
statistical tests or produce output (figures).
The main concern here is the use of derived variables such as MNI or MNE, generally
(comprehensive discussions can be found in Lyman, 2008) and their use in statistical tests,
specifically. As well as problematic issues such as the effects of aggregation on the calculation
of these units, their use in Chi square tests should be discouraged. The use of Andrew’s
equation, as a basis for statistical testing, is also problematic:
Ri = Ni/(MNI)Ei,
Where Ri is the relative frequency of skeletal part i (i.e. proportion), Ni is the observed
number of skeletal part i in the assemblage, MNI is the minimum number of individuals in
the assemblage, and Ei is the frequency of skeletal part i in one skeleton. This calculation is
then multiplied by 100 to give a percentage.
This yields a derived variable (and is calculated from MNI) - a proportion - that is, in turn,
converted to a percentage. These are not appropriate measures for the “mechanics” of Chi
square testing e.g. “It is fundamentally important to appreciate that the chi-square statistic
is calculated using the actual frequencies observed. It is not valid to convert the data to
percentages” (Zar, 2010, p. 467).
A solution could be the use of NISP counts (but there is the potential problem of
interdependence). Recalculation of test with the NISP data does not yield a result that would
compromise conclusions (Chi square = 19.657; p = 0.23) as it suggests that there is no
significant difference in the frequency of skeletal elements between the two assemblages. I
would, however, caution against “over-interpretation” of p values (e.g. Page 7, line 48 “this
analysis shows a significant similarity”).
There is no reason the results from Andrews equation cannot be employed in the
qualitative comparisons with Andrew’s (1990) data (as it is section 3.2), however.
The use of MNI counts as a proxy for taxonomic abundance is also problematic (also
see extensive discussions in Lyman, 2008). I would recommend the use of NISP counts
instead and that treatments in the paper are restricted to ordinal scale approaches (e.g.
relative abundances – “high”, “equal”) rather than ratio scale interpretations. Given that
MNI is essentially a redundant measure (the information is inherent in NISP) this should
not affect ordinal scale interpretations of the data.
References:
label_version_5
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
Lyman, R.L. 2008. Quantitative Palaeozoology. Cambridge
Zar, J.H. 2010. Biostatistical Analysis (5th edition). Pearson International.
Comments and suggested revisions
Abstract
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
1 47 “palaeoecosystems” . Suggested revision: “local habitats”
1 49 “Digestion marks present in low frequencies…..” Suggested revision:
“Digestion marks are present in low frequencies, with a light degree of
impact on the bones, which”
1 53 “indicate the role of a raptor (e.g. Tyto alba) in accumulation, whereas some
remains may have belonged to commensal species……” Strictly speaking, the
term “raptor” refers to the diurnal birds of prey (eagles, hawks, buzzards,
falcons etc.). Minor edit to this sentence re: commensals. Suggested revision
“indicate the role of owls (e.g. Tyto alba) as the principal means of
accumulation, in addition to the occurrence of commensal species”
1 54 “Species of gerbils (Gerbillus spp.)” Suggested revision: “Gerbils (Gerbillus
spp.)”
2 7-9 “Though low-level climate change cannot be ruled out, Byzantine irrigation
allowed jirds to colonize sandy anthropogenic habitats, joining other local
gerbilids and commensal mice and rats, and demonstrating the human
impact.”
Suggested revision:
“Though low-level climate change cannot be ruled out, the results suggest
that Byzantine irrigation allowed jirds to colonize modified sandy habitats
with other gerbilids and commensal mice and rats.”
Introduction
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
2 25- References to the Be’er Sheva Valley and Halutza. Could these locations be
26 annotated in Figure 1?
2 39 Reference 10, Tepper et al in prep. Works in preparation should not be cited.
This reference can be removed without compromising statements in the
paper.
2 54 “It was also argued”, replace with “It has also been argued”
3 11 “phenomenon”, replace with “agriculture”
3 17 “Species of small rodents and shrews”, replace with “Small rodents and
shrews”
3 23 “most such species”, replace with “most of these”
3 25 “Species of micromammals in the Negev are present in a wide variety of
habitats”, replace with “Micromammals are present in a wide variety of
habitats in the Negev”
3 39 “strong impact of anthropogenic” suggested revision “strong impact of recent
anthropogenic”
3 53 “wild species” suggested addition: “wild species” (non-commensal)
4 7-13 “Hence, micromammalian remains collected directly from the
archaeological contexts can provide an especially useful for reconstructing
such conditions for the period of intense Byzantine human activity. Here, we
examine the potential of this unique proxy record as a tool for teasing apart
climatic and anthropogenic impacts on the dynamics of the ancient Negev
agro-ecosystem”
label_version_6
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
There is no detailed discussion of “teasing apart” climatic and anthropogenic
impacts in the manuscript (see General Comments, point 2).
Suggested revision:
“Micromammalian remains collected directly from archaeological contexts
can provide a useful proxy for reconstructing environmental conditions
during the Byzantine period. Through the application of known aspects of
the ecology and habitat requirements of identified taxa, we examine this
proxy record in order to examine the impact of Byzantine agricultural
activities on the Negev”.
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
4 14 “The approach employed in this analysis is to conduct multivariate…”
Replace with: “We investigate taxonomic composition of the archaeological
assemblages and conduct multivariate……..”
4 21 Suggested revision: Move revised paragraph from Pages 5-6, lines 55-7 (“Our
goal is to….”) to here. See note for Pages 5-6, lines 55-7, below
Site and Settings
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
4 26 “Large amounts of micromammalian remains…”
Replace with: “Micromammalian remains…”
4 24- The description would benefit from the addition of a figure showing
51 annotated section drawings/profile photographs from the trenches to place
the examined material in context. See General Comments, point 1
4 38 Delete reference 10 (see comment for Page 2, Line 38)
4 45 “The absence of a clear occupation layer with pigeon bones and dung
indicates organized human abandonment of the structure”? (emphasis
added) Suggest rephrasing - meaning is unclear.
Material and Methods
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
5 18 “The remains were laboratory sorted according to skeletal part with
taxonomic identification of molar teeth, conducted using the comparative
collections…”
Suggest reworking:
“The remains were laboratory sorted by skeletal element. Taxonomic
identification of molar teeth, maxillae and mandibles was conducted using the
comparative collections…”
5 23- “These molar identifications….”
25 Table 1 includes counts on molars, mandible and maxillae:
Suggested revision: “Identified molars (and rare instances of maxilla and
mandible counts) were employed as a proxy for taxonomic abundance” or
similar.
See point 5, above, on the use of MNI.
5 30 “Molar tooth row length of gerbils and jirds from the archaeological
assemblages was measured and compared….”. These data are not reported
in the paper should be included.
5 46 Replace “community structure” with “taxonomic composition”
5 55 Delete “simultaneously”
5-6 55-7 “Our goal in this analysis……” This paragraph could be included with the
stated aims and can be moved to page 4, after line 21.
Suggested revision: “Our goal is to compare data on the taxonomic
composition of modern micromammal communities with the Byzantine
label_version_7
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
assemblages to examine potential differences in local habitats.” (or similar)
Results- Taxonomic identification
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
6 16 “Taxonomic identification was based on molar teeth…..” delete, this is
mentioned in Methods. It is also worth mentioning that maxillae and
mandibles are included in the counts. It is also important to remember that
specimens counts are not direct tallies of taxa, so as an alternative suggestion:
“Identification of cranial and dental remains (principally molars: NISP =
1,051) indicate that skeletal elements from gerbils and jirds are most
abundant in the assemblages, with relatively low numbers of specimens from:
lesser Egyptian jerboa……..” or similar
6 26 “Molar row tooth measurements….” There is no primary data for the tooth
row measurements – the inclusion of N and sd does not really add anything
here. This section (lines 26-32) should be revised to include these data, or
alternatively, it could be simply stated that is was not possible to identify the
gerbils and jirds beyond genus.
6 35 “versus” suggested revision “and”
6 48- “Sample size differences may explain……”
53 Suggested revision:
“While sample sizes are low from layers associated with human use, the high
relative abundance of the remains of commensal taxa suggests an important
difference in mode of accumulation.” (or similar)
3.2 Taphonomy
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
7 There does not appear to a direct reference to Table 2?
7 5-10 “The bones are well preserved, most to them complete and highly
identifiable. All skeletal parts are present, including a few clavicle and hyoid
bones, which are rarely found in archaeological sites. Of the bones that were
inspected……”
Suggested revision:
“The bones are well preserved and most of them are complete (e.g. %
longbones here?). All skeletal parts are present, including a few clavicle and
hyoid bones, which are rarely found in archaeological sites (REF – e.g.
Andrews, 1990 here?). 61% of specimens that were examined (long bones,
jaws and teeth; Total NISP = 3, 538) show some form of modification.”
7 23- “suggests light-moderate severity and a nocturnal predator such a one of the
27 owl species”…
Suggested revision:
“suggests light-moderate severity, which is consistent with modifications
observed from owl pellets. In summary, both the frequency and severity of
digestion are consistent with modifications observed in the skeletonised prey
of owls.
7 35 See General comments, point 5
3.3 Age determination
8 15 “(MNE=6)”, why is MNE employed here? NISP would be preferable.
Comparison to modern assemblages
3.4.1 Trapping assemblages– It is worth reiterating where the trapping data is
sourced from. This section would also benefit from some editing for clarity.
8 21 “It is noted that the assemblages from both the square dovecote of Sa’adon
(Structure B) and the dovecote of Shivta (Structure 6) have small samples
sizes and, therefore, quantitative comparisons of these assemblages are
more limiting and should be considered more carefully.”
label_version_8
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
Suggested revision:
“The assemblages from the square dovecote of Sa’adon (Structure B) and the
dovecote of Shivta (Structure 6) have small samples sizes and the utility of
quantitative comparisons is limited.” Or similar
8 40 “The expected position of our two……”
suggested revision: “Under modern conditions, the expected position of the
archaeological samples from Structure A would be”
8 47 “where jirds are fairly scarce, has an especially low average of 0.05 (SD =
0.06)”
suggested revision: “where jirds are scarce, has a low average index of 0.05”
8 50- “Consequently, in contrast with the expected position of the two Sa’adon
51 assemblages, it is more likely to fall in the top left of the ordination space”
Suggested revision:
“In contrast with the modern data, the Sa’adon assemblages fall in the top left
of the ordination space”
8 54 “(Figure 4; archaeological data could not be plotted in the same ordination
space with trapping data as comparability between the two methods is not
straightforward)”
Suggest revision:
“(Figure 4; archaeological data could not be plotted in the same ordination
space with trapping data due to the fundamental difference in the nature of
these data sets)” or similar
9 3-33 The basis and approach to the t-tests reported throughout this section is not
clear. For example, are indices the basis for the t tests (problematic)? The
same applies to the standard deviations, reported here. See General
comments, point 5
9 7 “This estimation provides a more realistic “observed” position for the
Sa’adon assemblages (Figure 4), indicating that relative to today, Byzantine
period communities with relatively high abundances of both gerbils and
jirds may have undergone a southward shift.”
Suggested revision
“It is the data from the 200 mm isohyet collection sites that are consistent
with the “observed” position of the Sa’adon assemblages, rather than the data
from the low precipitation sites that characterise the area today.” Or similar
t 16 “and low ones of jirds” Suggested revision: “low jird densities”
10 12 “quite high in the Cluster….” suggested revision “high in the Cluster….”
Discussion
Pag Line Comments/suggestions
e
The discussion section could benefit from some restructuring. I would suggest
that the taphonomic discussions are first (how did these bones get here?),
before the palaeoenvironmental discussions (what can the bones tell us?)
Section 4.1 can be edited and combined with section 4.4
Sections 4.2 and 4.3 can be combined.
10 21- “Composition of taxa in the four……………..within the dovecote structures”
24 sentence can be deleted – meaning is not clear.
“……layers are small and determining the significance of this difference is
difficult”
Suggested revision:
“……layers are small.”
10 44 “rich and diverse” suggested revision: “more diverse”
10 46 “Structure A remained abandoned” suggested revision: “Structure A was
abandoned”
10 46 “at an unknown period”: see General Comments, point1
label_version_9
RSOS-171528 A Snapshot of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on
Remains of Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert
11 9 “some digestion marks” suggested revision “digestion marks”
12 17 “Multivariate comparisons of the dovecote assemblages to modern data
based on trapping studies and analysis of owl pellet assemblages revealed
general similarities between the Sa’adon and Shivta Byzantine communities
of micomammals and those present within different habitats of the Negev
today.”
Suggested revision:
“Multivariate comparisons of the dovecote assemblages with data on
taxonomic composition and environmental variables from modern studies
(trapping and analysis of modern owl pellets) suggest that the taxonomic
composition of the archaeological assemblages is more similar to that found
in habitats elsewhere in the Negev than in the vicinity of Sa’adon, today.” Or
similar
12 24 “the later part of the Byzantine” see General Comments, point 1
12 49 “decreasing ones of jirds” suggested revision “decreasing numbers of jirds”
12 49 “An index of jirds to gerbils was therefore found useful” See General
comments, point 4
13 5 “jirds and gerbils are abundant and the resulting index is higher than
expected”
Suggested revision:
“the index of jirds to gerbils is higher than the index derived from the
modern data”
13 7 “Owl pellet assemblages from modern collections are especially relevant as a
reference”
Suggested revision:
“Modern owl pellet assemblages are an important point of reference”
Conclusions
Page Line Comments/suggestions
14 16 “Still, comparing between our archaeological assemblages and modern data”
Suggested revision
“Comparison of the archaeological assemblages, however, with modern data”
or similar
14 20 “with fairly abundant” suggested revision: “with abundant”
14 25 “The anomalous high frequencies” suggested revision: “The high frequencies”
14 41 “plant and animal communities in profound ways” Suggested revision:
“plant and animal communities.”
Appendix B
Dear Editor,
We greatly appreciate the constructive comments of the reviewers and their support of
publishing our paper: “A Glimpse of an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem based on Remains of
Micromammals in the Byzantine Negev Desert” by Fried et al. (MS Reference Number: RSOS-
171528). Below we provide a short general overview of revisions and provide a point-by-point
response as to how we addressed the reviewer comments (blue font). Because this revision
required in-text changes in different places throughout the manuscript and for the sake of
convenience we also upload a version of the manuscript text file with track changes.
To address the concern regarding accessibility of an unpublished manuscript (Weissbrod,
unpublished) we uploaded the original file to the Dryad data archiving site, with a link to our
paper, and included the DOI and full reference in the paper where appropriate. This report
includes a detailed table with the data used in our paper. With this, all the raw data used in the
paper should be available: (1) our original archaeological data within the paper (NISPs in Table
1), (2) additional archaeological data in Dryad and (3) all other archaeological or modern
comparative data from existing publications are referenced within the paper.
Much of our revision focused on the valid comments concerning statistics: we accepted the
very useful recommendations of the reviewers regarding appropriate use of Chi-square (with
NISPs rather than MNEs), employed nonparametric techniques (Mann-Whitney) instead of T-
test, and the coefficient of variation (CV) instead of standard deviation. For improving
readability of statistic description where this description was agreeably too dense within the
manuscript, we added Table 3 summarizing the basic statistics (N, range, Min-Max, mean and
CV) on densities and the index of Gerbillidae.
Referee #1
Summary
This is an interesting piece of work, which achieves its relatively modest aims and does so with care.
The text could probably be shortened a little by editing for repeated statements, (1) for example
concerning the relationship of taxon distribution to precipitation and soils. (2) The discussion could
consider the Byzantine irrigated environment in terms of a mosaic of microhabitat patches, and
what that would imply in terms of overall species richness and equitability. That is somewhat
implicit in the text but could be made clearer.
These suggestions on streamlining parts of the discussion were welcomed by us and
addressed in the discussion section: (1) repeated statement in section 4.2 of discussion in
beginning of 4th paragraph taken out and (2) we consider the issue of habitat mosaics in
relation to species diversity in the end of the preceding paragraph of the same section: “This
leads us to suggest the existence of a mosaic of habitat patches, including more natural and
anthropogenic ones, surrounding the dovecotes and forming part of the Byzantine
agricultural landscape”.
Suggested revisions & comments
P3, 6-7: “Because of an absence of palaeoenvironmental data which are obtained directly from….”.
Grammatical point. This needs to be “…that are obtained from…” or simply “…obtained from…”.
This was accordingly corrected.
P4, 34: it’s a small point, but could you indicate the species of ‘pigeon’? Columba livia or a
Streptopelia species?
The species (Columba livia) was noted in the text.
P5, 15: “was as well built…”. Suggest “was also built…” to avoid confusion with e.g. “a well-built
structure…”.
Word was revised.
P5, 43-4: “Age was also assessed based on epiphyseal fusion in long bones.” Given that full
epiphyseal fusion
may only occur late in life in some rodent taxa (e.g. Rattus), it would be helpful to have reference
here to the
sources used in this particular analysis.
To clarify this issue we noted in the methods section that: “Age was also assessed based on
epiphyseal fusion in long bones, noting the presence of unfused epiphyses (sub-adult) and of
fused ones (adult).”
P6, 28-30: “revealed wide ranges of variation (SDgerbils = 0.2 mm; SDjirds = 0.2 mm)..”. First, SD
isn’t a
‘range’. Second, SD values only indicate the degree of variability when seen in proportion to the
mean. Suggest replacing SD here with Coefficient of Variability (100SD/mean).
We now provide full information on ranges and use CV instead of SD in Table 3, which should
greatly improve the ease of readers in following this section of the Results.
P11, 52-4: “because longevity is extended among commensal species with high access to food
resources and reduced pressure from predators.” Maybe add a few words to make clear that this is
broadly true for rodents, but not for commensal mammals in general. Foxes, for example, show
the opposite longevity effect.
We qualified this sentence accordingly by adding the word rodents before commensals.
P11 general thought: might (omnivorous) house mice have entered the dovecotes to scavenge bird
corpses?
This is quite possible, and we thank the reviewer for this note.
P12, 3rd/4th paragraphs somewhat repeat what the paper has already said about gerbil/jird
association with
precipitation and soils.
This was addressed as detailed above in general comments to Editor.
P13, 50-55: worth commenting here that spiny mice are facultative commensals. That is implied in
the text but not made explicit.
We added a mention of this valid point towards the end of the discussion section: “spiny mice
(Acomys cahirinus)—a known facultative commensal species—…”
Referee #2
Summary
This study considers assemblages of small vertebrate bones recovered from archaeological sites as
the first direct line evidence to examine the impact of agricultural practices in the Negev in the
4th to 7th centuries. The study makes a good taphonomic case that the principal vector of
accumulation of the archaeological material was through the regurgitation of skeletonised prey
of owls, before moving on to consider the palaeoenvironmental implications of identified small
taxa – principally gerbils and jirds. In terms of the palaeoenvironmental reconstruction, a
particular strength of this study is the (measured) comparison of the archaeological data with
results from surveys of extant small mammals and recent owl pellet assemblages in the
Negev. The authors conclude that anthropogenic impact on the Byzantine landscapes of the
Negev is reflected by taxonomic representation of Gerbillus spp. and Meriones spp. in the
(archaeological) owl pellet assemblages, which has no analogue in the modern data sets and is
interpreted to reflect the impact of agricultural and irrigation practices on local habitats.
Overall, the paper is well written and would be relatively easy to follow for a general audience,
although would benefit from some restructuring and revision, particular towards the latter end
of the manuscript – the discussion can be difficult to follow in places. The references appear to
be in good order. There are issues with the content that I feel require revision and clarification
(major points are included in General Comments, below)
- but I feel that it would be straightforward for the authors to address these. I would support
the publication of this submission on the condition of revision.
General comments
1) Chronology, time-averaging and the use of the term “snapshot”
The age of the assemblages is inferred from cultural remains recovered in the excavated
structures and wider archaeological understanding of the region. I have, however, concerns on
the chronological context of this materials (this bears directly on the title of the manuscript):
i) The archaeological material is dated, by reference to cultural materials, to the 4th-7th
century, so a period of say 300 to 400 years (but see point 2, below)? This date is perhaps
rather broad to be referred to as a “snapshot”, particularly from the perspective of an ecologist
(this can be a loaded term from a palaeozoological perspective, too). There is no way, on the
current evidence presented in the paper, of determining time-averaging or rates of accumulation
of the archaeological material, so I would recommend the use of an alternative title:
e.g. “Insights on an Ancient Agricultural Ecosystem…..” or similar.
We agree with this comment and modified the title accordingly, changing the word snapshot
to glimpse. The latter, we feel, captures the idea of a view into but without the loaded
meaning of very short, which archaeology truly rarely provides.
ii) The stratigraphic descriptions require expansion and clarification. The structures from
which the archaeological material was recovered were dated to the Byzantine period (based on
associated cultural materials). The archaeological assemblages, however, were recovered from
sedimentary units associated with abandonment of these structures. If I have understood
correctly, the abandonment layers are in superposition and post-date occupation? Or was
there more than one horizon at each site? The cultural material, then, would only give a
maximum ages for the pellet assemblages. In the absence of direct dates (e.g. 14C), how
confident can we be that the pellet assemblages are indeed Byzantine and do not post-date this
period (or represent an admixture of the two – see point iii?). It is difficult for the reader to
assess the stratigraphic relationships of the “human abandonment” and “human use” layers
from the brief description provided (a paragraph in section 1.1). The addition of a figure with
annotated section drawings or at least annotated profile photographs from the trenches, with a
more robust explanation in section 1.1 (Sites and setting) was be a welcome addition and
increase confidence in the conclusions.
We feel this comment refers mainly to our Structure A, which contains the bulk of our
archaeological samples. As suggested, we added a figure (now Figure 2) with two
photographs of this structure during excavation, showing the section inside the structure and
specific location where the samples were retrieved (Figure 2a); and a second one showing a
general view of the structure clarifying its general mode of construction (Figure 2b).
The section clarifies that the analyzed microfaunal remains come from a 30 cm-thick deposit
placed directly above the bedrock floor and below the collapse debris. We state in the text
that this stratigraphic and contextual impression of a quick depositional succession supports
our interpretation that this assemblage was deposited rapidly and soon after human
abandonment of the structure, and should rule out concerns of mixing with material from
later periods:
“This relatively thin stratigraphic sequence, lacking the pigeon bone and dung layer that
was uncovered in the other two structures and containing large quantities of remains of
micromammals, suggests accumulation which post-dates the time of human
abandonment of Structure A, but that in all likelihood occurred soon after this event. It
is presumed that the site as a whole was permanently abandoned at the end of the
Byzantine period (early 7th cent. CE), based on the extreme rarity of any findings from
later periods (Hirschfeld 2006)”.
We also add in the discussion section a reference to the De Cupere et al. (2009) paper,
mentioned by Reviewer #3, suggesting that a microfaunal assemblage roughly of the size that
we have should have accumulated by nesting owls within no more than the span of a few
years:
“…stratigraphic indicators together with the size of our assemblages (MNI = 176) suggest
rapid accumulation of the assemblages (see De Cupere et al. 2009 for discussion of a
similar short-term accumulation scenario), which likely came soon after human
abandonment of the structures”.
iii) The main argument of the paper is that the presence of jirds and gerbils, in nearly equal
frequencies (which have no analogue in the modern reference data sets), in the
archaeological owl pellet assemblages reflect the impact of agriculture and irrigation, which
provided amenable habitats for jirds. With little information on the degree to which the
assemblages could be time-averaged or rates of accumulation in the paper (I accept these factors
can be difficult to assess) it could be argued that the recovered material may represent a temporal
admixture:
e.g. the assemblages reflect owls hunting in habitats where the effects of irrigation etc. are still
“in operation” with an increase in capture of jirds, mixed with pellets from later periods,
after abandonment, with an increase in the presence and capture of gerbils associated with a
return to arid habitats.
I suspect that the dovecote assemblages may be temporally constrained and I also note that there
is a brief treatment of this issue in the discussion (Page 11, lines 12-35), but it is inconclusive. I feel
that the arguments presented in the manuscript would be strengthened if the
stratigraphic/contextual integrity of the archaeological assemblages could be better established.
This comment is addressed in our reply to the comment above (ii).
2) Climatic versus anthropogenic impacts
In its current form, the manuscript does not discuss the possible impact of climate change on
the Negev in any detail. Rather, there is the (implicit) focus on anthropogenic impact through
agricultural activities. I would recommend removing the emphasis from climatic mechanisms:
“Hence, micromammalian remains collected directly from the archaeological contexts can provide an especially useful for
reconstructing such conditions for the period of intense Byzantine human activity. Here, we examine the potential of
this unique proxy record as a tool for teasing apart climatic and anthropogenic impacts on the dynamics of the ancient
Negev agro-ecosystem”
We amended this sentence as suggested.
See comments and suggestions.
3) Terminology
There are instances of the use of relative terms in the paper, which at times makes can make
statements rather vague. These terms detract from the study and could be replaced with
more precise language, without compromising the content. See comments and suggested
revisions.
Suggested revisions were accepted in all cases.
4) Methods and Data
Shannon H indices are included in Table 1, but there is no mention of this approach in the
manuscript. There doesn’t appear to be a direct reference to Table 2 in the manuscript.
The Shannon H index is now addressed in the end of the Methods section, together with
other statistical methods used. A reference to Table 2 was added.
Comparisons of tooth row measurements (from gerbils and jirds) with reference materials are
mentioned in the methods section but, with the exception of number of observations and
standard deviations (?), are not reported in the results.
As suggested below by the Reviewer, we confined our detailing of this analysis to the
Methods section and only mention that an attempt was made towards species level ID, but
that due to low sample size this was not successful”
“…sample sizes for complete tooth rows are small (Gerbillus: 9 mandibles and 1
maxillae; Meriones: 4 mandibles and 2 maxillae), and do not allow clear cut
identification and quantification at the species level”.
“jirds/gerbils index”. This forms the crux of the palaeoenvironmental arguments, later in the
manuscript. There is no mention of this approach in the methods section, its utility or why it is
employed. I accept that this is a straightforward calculation but given that it forms the basis of
the palaeoenvironmental arguments, calculation and application should be described in the
methods.
This issue is now addressed in the last paragraph of the Methods section:
“Because we compare ancient and modern assemblages, each relying on different
forms of quantification of species abundances (i.e., MNIs versus trapping densities), we
also introduce a Gerbillidae index (Meriones/Gerbillus) as a way of standardizing data
across assemblages for the purpose of direct quantitative comparisons”.
The results of t-tests and standard deviations of indices are reported throughout the discussion
of the trapping assemblages – if these data are already reported in a separate publication,
reiteration of the statistical output is perhaps not necessary – just state the findings. If these
data are novel, then they should be included. It would benefit the manuscript if there was
discussion of these treatments in the Methods.
As mentioned above in our general comments to the Editor, these issues were much clarified
by detailing statistical methods in the Methods section and adding a table of basic statistics
(Table 3). All our data is thus included within the paper and was not published in any
previous paper.
5) Statistical Analyses
There is no reference to conventional texts, or software packages that were employed to run
statistical tests or produce output (figures).
We now mention in the end of the Methods section that all statistical analyses were
conducted with the program PAST, also providing a relevant reference.
The main concern here is the use of derived variables such as MNI or MNE, generally
(comprehensive discussions can be found in Lyman, 2008) and their use in statistical tests,
specifically. As well as problematic issues such as the effects of aggregation on the calculation of
these units, their use in Chi square tests should be discouraged. The use of Andrew’s equation, as a
basis for statistical testing, is also problematic:
Ri = Ni/(MNI)Ei,
Where Ri is the relative frequency of skeletal part i (i.e. proportion), Ni is the observed number of
skeletal part i in the assemblage, MNI is the minimum number of individuals in the assemblage,
and Ei is the frequency of skeletal part i in one skeleton. This calculation is then multiplied by 100
to give a percentage.
This yields a derived variable (and is calculated from MNI) - a proportion - that is, in turn,
converted to a percentage. These are not appropriate measures for the “mechanics” of Chi
square testing e.g. “It is fundamentally important to appreciate that the chi-square statistic is calculated using the
actual frequencies observed. It is not valid to convert the data to percentages” (Zar, 2010, p. 467).
A solution could be the use of NISP counts (but there is the potential problem of
interdependence). Recalculation of test with the NISP data does not yield a result that would
compromise conclusions (Chi square
= 19.657; p = 0.23) as it suggests that there is no significant difference in the frequency of
skeletal elements between the two assemblages. I would, however, caution against “over-
interpretation” of p values (e.g. Page 7, line 48 “this analysis shows a significant similarity”).
There is no reason the results from Andrews equation cannot be employed in the qualitative
comparisons with
Andrew’s (1990) data (as it is section 3.2), however.
The use of MNI counts as a proxy for taxonomic abundance is also problematic (also see
extensive discussions in Lyman, 2008). I would recommend the use of NISP counts instead and
that treatments in the paper are restricted to ordinal scale approaches (e.g. relative abundances –
“high”, “equal”) rather than ratio scale interpretations. Given that MNI is essentially a redundant
measure (the information is inherent in NISP) this should not affect ordinal scale interpretations
of the data.
We agree with the Reviewer regarding the methodological and quantification problems at
the heart of archaeozoological analysis, which plague both NISP and MNI quantification
methods as also detailed in Lyman (2008). In the Methods section we added a short section
providing explicit reasons for our use of MNI rather than NISP. Most importantly, in our case
the problem of aggregation is not a concern as with each assemblage the faunal material was
collected from a whole undifferentiated deposit. This is now explicated in detail within the
text:
“In these analyses we employ MNI calculations to represent taxonomic composition in
the archaeological assemblages. These reconstructed figures should more closely
correspond to the data format used in studies of both trapping and recent owl pellets,
which are based on counts of individuals. Although, the use of NISPs rather than MNIs
is generally recommended in archaeozoological studies due in part to issues of
aggregation (Grayson 1984 ; Lyman 2008), in this study counting of MNIs in each
assemblage was based on pooling material from a whole undifferentiated
archaeological locus. Moreover, it has been suggested that consistent use of a
restricted range of skeletal elements (e.g., only cranial elements) for taxonomic
identification, as is often the case with studies of micromammalian remains, should
greatly improve correspondence between MNI and NISP calculations (Grayson 1984)”.
References:
Lyman, R.L. 2008. Quantitative Palaeozoology. Cambridge
Zar, J.H. 2010. Biostatistical Analysis (5th edition). Pearson International.
Comments and suggested revisions
The table below mainly includes detailed recommendations for improving our wording and
flow of the manuscript and we adopted all of them.
Abstract
Page Line Comments/suggestions
1 47 “palaeoecosystems” . Suggested revision: “local habitats”
1 49 “Digestion marks present in low frequencies…..” Suggested revision: “Digestion marks are
present in low frequencies, with a light degree of impact on the bones, which”
1 53 “indicate the role of a raptor (e.g. Tyto alba) in accumulation, whereas some remains may have
belonged to commensal species……” Strictly speaking, the term “raptor” refers to the
diurnal birds of prey (eagles, hawks, buzzards, falcons etc.). Minor edit to this sentence
re: commensals. Suggested revision “indicate the role of owls (e.g. Tyto alba) as the
principal means of accumulation, in addition to the occurrence of commensal species”
1 54 “Species of gerbils (Gerbillus spp.)” Suggested revision: “Gerbils (Gerbillus spp.)”
2 7-9 “Though low-level climate change cannot be ruled out, Byzantine irrigation allowed jirds to colonize
sandy anthropogenic habitats, joining other local gerbilids and commensal mice and rats, and
demonstrating the human impact.”
Suggested revision:
“Though low-level climate change cannot be ruled out, the results suggest that Byzantine irrigation
allowed jirds to colonize modified sandy habitats with other gerbilids and commensal mice and rats.”
Introduction
Page Line Comments/suggestions
2 25-26 References to the Be’er Sheva Valley and Halutza. Could these locations be annotated
in Figure 1?
2 39 Reference 10, Tepper et al in prep. Works in preparation should not be cited. This
reference can be removed without compromising statements in the paper.
2 54 “It was also argued”, replace with “It has also been argued”
3 11 “phenomenon”, replace with “agriculture”
3 17 “Species of small rodents and shrews”, replace with “Small rodents and shrews”
3 23 “most such species”, replace with “most of these”
3 25 “Species of micromammals in the Negev are present in a wide variety of habitats”, replace with
“Micromammals are present in a wide variety of habitats in the Negev”
3 39 “strong impact of anthropogenic” suggested revision “strong impact of recent
anthropogenic”
3 53 “wild species” suggested addition: “wild species” (non-commensal)
4 7-13 “Hence, micromammalian remains collected directly from the archaeological contexts can provide an
especially useful for reconstructing such conditions for the period of intense Byzantine human activity.
Here, we examine the potential of this unique proxy record as a tool for teasing apart climatic and
anthropogenic impacts on the dynamics of the ancient Negev agro-ecosystem”
There is no detailed discussion of “teasing apart” climatic and anthropogenic impacts
in the manuscript (see General Comments, point 2).
Suggested revision:
“Micromammalian remains collected directly from archaeological contexts can provide a useful proxy for
reconstructing environmental conditions during the Byzantine period. Through the application of known
aspects of the ecology and habitat requirements of identified taxa, we examine this proxy record in order
to examine the impact of Byzantine agricultural activities on the Negev”.
Page Line Comments/suggestions
4 14 “The approach employed in this analysis is to conduct multivariate…”
Replace with: “We investigate taxonomic composition of the archaeological
assemblages and conduct multivariate……..”
4 21 Suggested revision: Move revised paragraph from Pages 5-6, lines 55-7 (“Our goal is
to….”) to here. See note for Pages 5-6, lines 55-7, below
Site and Settings
Page Line Comments/suggestions
4 26 “Large amounts of micromammalian remains…” Replace with: “Micromammalian remains…”
4 24-51 The description would benefit from the addition of a figure showing annotated section
drawings/profile photographs from the trenches to place the examined material in
context. See General Comments, point 1
4 38 Delete reference 10 (see comment for Page 2, Line 38)
4 45 “The absence of a clear occupation layer with pigeon bones and dung indicates organized human
abandonment of the structure”? (emphasis added) Suggest rephrasing - meaning is unclear.
Material and Methods
Page Line Comments/suggestions
5 18 “The remains were laboratory sorted according to skeletal part with taxonomic identification of molar
teeth, conducted using the comparative collections…”
Suggest reworking:
“The remains were laboratory sorted by skeletal element. Taxonomic identification of
molar teeth, maxillae and mandibles was conducted using the comparative
collections…”
5 23-25 “These molar identifications….”
Table 1 includes counts on molars, mandible and maxillae:
Suggested revision: “Identified molars (and rare instances of maxilla and mandible
counts) were employed as a proxy for taxonomic abundance” or similar.
5 30 See point
“Molar 5, above,
tooth on ofthe
row length useand
gerbils of MNI.
jirds from the archaeological assemblages was measured and
compared….”. These data are not reported in the paper should be included.
5 46 Replace “community structure” with “taxonomic composition”
5 55 Delete “simultaneously”
5-6 55-7 “Our goal in this analysis……” This paragraph could be included with the stated aims
and can be moved to page 4, after line 21.
Suggested revision: “Our goal is to compare data on the taxonomic composition of
modern micromammal communities with the Byzantine assemblages to examine
potential differences in local habitats.” (or similar)
Results- Taxonomic identification
Page Line Comments/suggestions
6 16 “Taxonomic identification was based on molar teeth…..” delete, this is mentioned in Methods.
It is also worth mentioning that maxillae and mandibles are included in the counts. It
is also important to remember that specimens counts are not direct tallies of taxa, so
as an alternative suggestion:
“Identification of cranial and dental remains (principally molars: NISP = 1,051)
indicate that skeletal elements from gerbils and jirds are most abundant in the
assemblages, with relatively low numbers of specimens from: lesser Egyptian
6 26 jerboa……..”
“Molar or similar
row tooth measurements….” There is no primary data for the tooth row
measurements – the inclusion of N and sd does not really add anything here. This
section (lines 26-32) should be revised to include these data, or alternatively, it could
be simply stated that is was not possible to identify the gerbils and jirds beyond genus.
6 35 “versus” suggested revision “and”
6 48-53 “Sample size differences may explain……” Suggested revision:
“While sample sizes are low from layers associated with human use, the high relative
abundance of the remains of commensal taxa suggests an important difference in
mode of accumulation.” (or similar)
3.2 Taphonomy
Page Line Comments/suggestions
7 There does not appear to a direct reference to Table 2?
7 5-10 “The bones are well preserved, most to them complete and highly identifiable. All skeletal parts are
present, including a few clavicle and hyoid bones, which are rarely found in archaeological sites. Of the
bones that were inspected……”
Suggested revision:
“The bones are well preserved and most of them are complete (e.g. % longbones here?).
All skeletal parts are present, including a few clavicle and hyoid bones, which are rarely
found in archaeological sites (REF – e.g. Andrews, 1990 here?). 61% of specimens that
were examined (long bones, jaws and teeth; Total NISP = 3, 538) show some form of
modification.”
7 23-27 “suggests light-moderate severity and a nocturnal predator such a one of the owl species”… Suggested
revision:
“suggests light-moderate severity, which is consistent with modifications observed from owl pellets. In
summary, both the frequency and severity of digestion are consistent with modifications observed in the
skeletonised prey of owls.
7 35 See General comments, point 5
3.3 Age determination
8 15 “(MNE=6)”, why is MNE employed here? NISP would be preferable.
Comparison to modern assemblages
3.4.1 Trapping assemblages– It is worth reiterating where the trapping data is sourced
from. This section would also benefit from some editing for clarity.
8 21 “It is noted that the assemblages from both the square dovecote of Sa’adon (Structure B) and the
dovecote of Shivta (Structure 6) have small samples sizes and, therefore, quantitative comparisons of
these assemblages are more limiting and should be considered more carefully.”
Suggested revision:
“The assemblages from the square dovecote of Sa’adon (Structure B) and the
dovecote of Shivta (Structure 6) have small samples sizes and the utility of quantitative
comparisons is limited.” Or similar
8 40 “The expected position of our two……”
suggested revision: “Under modern conditions, the expected position of the
archaeological samples from Structure A would be”
8 47 “where jirds are fairly scarce, has an especially low average of 0.05 (SD = 0.06)”
suggested revision: “where jirds are scarce, has a low average index of 0.05”
8 50-51 “Consequently, in contrast with the expected position of the two Sa’adon assemblages, it is more likely to
fall in the top left of the ordination space”
Suggested revision:
“In contrast with the modern data, the Sa’adon assemblages fall in the top left of the
ordination space”
8 54 “(Figure 4; archaeological data could not be plotted in the same ordination space with trapping data as
comparability between the two methods is not straightforward)”
Suggest revision:
“(Figure 4; archaeological data could not be plotted in the same ordination space with
trapping data due to the fundamental difference in the nature of these data sets)”
or similar
9 3-33 The basis and approach to the t-tests reported throughout this section is not clear. For
example, are indices the basis for the t tests (problematic)? The same applies to the
standard deviations, reported here. See General comments, point 5
9 7 “This estimation provides a more realistic “observed” position for the Sa’adon assemblages (Figure 4),
indicating that relative to today, Byzantine period communities with relatively high abundances of both
gerbils and jirds may have undergone a southward shift.”
Suggested revision
“It is the data from the 200 mm isohyet collection sites that are consistent with the
“observed” position of the Sa’adon assemblages, rather than the data from the low
precipitation sites that characterise the area today.” Or similar
t 16 “and low ones of jirds” Suggested revision: “low jird densities”
10 12 “quite high in the Cluster….” suggested revision “high in the Cluster….”
Discussion
Page Line Comments/suggestions
The discussion section could benefit from some restructuring. I would suggest that the
taphonomic discussions are first (how did these bones get here?), before the
palaeoenvironmental discussions (what can the bones tell us?)
Section 4.1 can be edited and combined with section 4.4
Sections 4.2 and 4.3 can be combined.
10 21-24 “Composition of taxa in the four……………..within the dovecote structures” sentence can be
deleted – meaning is not clear.
“……layers are small and determining the significance of this difference is difficult” Suggested revision:
“……layers are small.”
10 44 “rich and diverse” suggested revision: “more diverse”
10 46 “Structure A remained abandoned” suggested revision: “Structure A was abandoned”
10 46 “at an unknown period”: see General Comments, point1
11 9 “some digestion marks” suggested revision “digestion marks”
12 17 “Multivariate comparisons of the dovecote assemblages to modern data based on trapping studies and
analysis of owl pellet assemblages revealed general similarities between the Sa’adon and Shivta
Byzantine communities of micomammals and those present within different habitats of the Negev
today.”
Suggested revision:
“Multivariate comparisons of the dovecote assemblages with data on taxonomic
composition and environmental variables from modern studies (trapping and analysis
of modern owl pellets) suggest that the taxonomic composition of the archaeological
assemblages is more similar to that found in habitats elsewhere in the Negev than in
the vicinity of Sa’adon, today.” Or similar
12 24 “the later part of the Byzantine” see General Comments, point 1
12 49 “decreasing ones of jirds” suggested revision “decreasing numbers of jirds”
12 49 “An index of jirds to gerbils was therefore found useful” See General comments, point 4
13 5 “jirds and gerbils are abundant and the resulting index is higher than expected” Suggested revision:
“the index of jirds to gerbils is higher than the index derived from the modern data”
13 7 “Owl pellet assemblages from modern collections are especially relevant as a reference” Suggested
revision:
“Modern owl pellet assemblages are an important point of reference”
Conclusions
Page Line Comments/suggestions
14 16 “Still, comparing between our archaeological assemblages and modern data” Suggested
revision
“Comparison of the archaeological assemblages, however, with modern data” or
similar
14 20 “with fairly abundant” suggested revision: “with abundant”
14 25 “The anomalous high frequencies” suggested revision: “The high frequencies”
14 41 “plant and animal communities in profound ways” Suggested revision: “plant and animal
communities.”
Referee #3
Summary
This is a very interesting and worthwhile study, that addresses a remarkable historical phenomenon
- the Byzantine cultivation of the Negev desert - through an appropriate but relatively unusual line
of evidence: small mammal remains. The authors make appropriately conservative use of statistics
in order to compare the archaeological material with modern ecological data, correctly noting
when these cannot be directly compared. Their approach to these comparisons is ultimately
something of a work-around, but I think that's unavoidable, and the results are convincing.
Suggested revisions
I believe this is suitable for publication in more-or-less its present form. However, I do have a few
minor suggestions that might help to improve the paper:
1. Page 5 line 16: micromammal remains were "pulled" from samples. It would be good to replace
this with a clearer and more detailed description of the procedures involved, particularly for the
more uninitiated reader - one would assume wet sieving?
We amended the sentence to: “Remains of micromammals were collected from fine-sieved
(1 mm mesh) bulk soil samples from the excavations”.
2. Page 6 line 30: the authors use standard deviations to illustrate their point about variability in
size. Wouldn't coefficients of variation be more appropriate here?
This recommendation was accepted.
3. Page 7, line 46: chi-squared testing "shows a significant similarity". Pedantically, one can't show a
significant similarity, only fail to show a significant difference. I don't object to the interpretation
here, but I think the wording needs to be tweaked slightly - minimally removing the word
'significant', but perhaps also replacing
'shows' with something slightly weaker like 'suggests' or even 'indicates'.
We agree and amended to sentence accordingly: “This analysis indicates that the difference
in skeletal frequencies between the two assemblages is not significant…”
4. Page 9, lines 9-12: there's a bit of ambiguity in the suggestion that ancient rodents "underwent a
southward shift" relative to modern ones. I read this as meaning that the distribution used to
extend further south, but in this case the shift is really northward.
To remove ambiguity here we used a slightly different formulation, as well as moved this
more general sentence to the end of Section 3.4.1: “These results are an indication that
locally increased water budgets allowed communities of small mammals with relatively high
abundances of both gerbils and jirds to extend into an arid part of the Negev in the Byzantine
period”.
5. Page 11, line 43: "wander around" is a bit informal - reword with something more technical?
This was changed to “disperse from the parental nest”.
6. When discussing the question of raptor pellets, abandonment, and commensal taxa, I was a bit
surprised that the authors didn't refer to Bea de Cupere's work on owl pellets from 6th/7th C
Sagalassos (DOI: 10.1002/oa.965) - could be an interesting comparison.
We now cite de Cupere et al's (2009) work in the Introduction and Discussion sections.
Data Availability
My only real concern is about data availability: firstly, RAW data from the study sites are not
included here, although I think the data in the tables are sufficient to perform the analyses
presented in the manuscript. Secondly (more problematically?) there are references to additional
assemblages as 'Weissbrod unpublished',
As mentioned above we uploaded this unpublished report to the Dryad system and provided
a reference with DOI in the manuscript.
Society Open
