Isospectrals of non-uniform Rayleigh beams with respect to
their uniform counterparts
Srivatsa Bhat K. and Ranjan Ganguli
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171717.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171717
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171717.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (David Grier)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript describes a novel theoretical study of the vibrational spectra of mechanical
beams, treated in the Rayleigh approximation. Specifically, the authors develop a framework,
expressed in Eq. (2.11) and Eq. (2.12), that establishes which non-uniform beams have the same
vibrational spectrum as a specified uniform beam. The authors identify four cases of particular
interest, and specify the properties of each class of non-uniform beams. These results are
confirmed through finite-element analysis.
This paper clearly presents a nice result for a useful class of problems. The manuscript is well
written and the figures illustrate the concepts. I recommend publication in the present form.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
For verification and validation of results, mode shape presentation is essential.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
3
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See the attached report (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171717)
02-Jan-2018
Dear Mr Bhat K,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Non-uniform Rayleigh beams isospectral to a given uniform
beam") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 25-Jan-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
4
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171717
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Talha Erdem (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Dear Mr. Bhat,
Thank you very much for your interest to our journal. We have now received the reviewer
comments, which you can find below. Based on these reports, we suggest major revisions for
your article. We are looking forward receiving the revised version of your manuscript.
Best regards,
Dr. Talha Erdem
---
Reviewer 1:
This manuscript describes a novel theoretical study of the vibrational spectra of mechanical
beams, treated in the Rayleigh approximation. Specifically, the authors develop a framework,
expressed in Eq. (2.11) and Eq. (2.12), that establishes which non-uniform beams have the same
vibrational spectrum as a specified uniform beam. The authors identify four cases of particular
interest, and specify the properties of each class of non-uniform beams. These results are
confirmed through finite-element analysis.
This paper clearly presents a nice result for a useful class of problems. The manuscript is well
written and the figures illustrate the concepts. I recommend publication in the present form.
Reviewer 2:
This is a most interesting paper which provides isospectral properties of non-uniform Rayleigh
beams with respect to uniform Rayleigh beams. The equivalency between non-uniform Rayleigh
6
beams and uniform Rayleigh beams in the context of free vibration and/or spectral analysis has
been developed using a well thought out process and relying on a secure mathematical basis. The
material is worthy of publication. However, a number of criticisms arise which must be
addressed before the paper can be accepted for publication. Some of these criticisms are technical
whereas some others are presentational. These are enumerated as follows:
1). The title of the paper may be improved. For example, a suggested title could be "Isospectrals
of non-uniform Rayleigh beams with respect to (or in relation to) their uniform counterparts".
2). Line above equation (2.1): "omega squared" should be "omega".
3). Line above equation (2.3): "uniform beam" should be "uniform Rayleigh beam".
4). Line above equation (2.4): "is transformed" should be "can be transformed".
5). Some justification in choosing f, g and m in terms of p and q leading to equation (2.7) should
be given.
6). Alpha and Beta of equation (2.14) should be clearly defined.
7). In equation (2.18), it is not a good idea to use the symbol g for b*h**3 because g is generally
used to denote the acceleration due to gravity.
8). In the validation of results using finite element method, no mention has been made about the
number of beam elements used in the analysis. It should be recognized that the finite element
method is an approximate method and the results are dependent on the number of elements used
in the analysis. It is possible to obtain exact results (exact in a sense within the limits of the
governing differential equation) for the natural frequencies of a tapered Rayleigh beam for
different boundary conditions, but to obtain these results concerted efforts need to be expended
which may take the paper beyond its intended purpose. Therefore, this is not a mandatory
requirement for acceptance of the paper.
9). The greatest criticism of all is the absence of mode shape validation results. Natural
frequencies on their own are meaningless unless substantiated by some carefully chosen mode
shapes. It is disappointing in the extreme that the authors have not presented mode shapes when
validating their results. It is necessary to compare mode shapes using authors' theory with those
using the finite element and/or exact methods.
10). It is incomprehensible and almost to the height of absurdity that the authors have not quoted
Lord Rayleigh's classic text "Theory of Sound" in their list of references. It was after all Lord
Rayleigh who conceived for the first time the idea of rotatory inertia in beam vibration problems
and therefore, being the originator of the Rayleigh beam theory should be mentioned in the
reference list.
Reviewer 3:
The manuscript concerns the search of non-uniform beams isospectral to a given uniform
Rayleigh beam. The Authors propose a transformation that converts the fourth order governing
differential equation of non-uniform Rayleigh beam into a uniform one. Matching the coefficients
of the transformed equation with those of the uniform beam equation the non-uniform beam
isospectral to the given uniform beam is obtained. The frequency equivalence between non-
uniform and uniform beams is confirmed by using finite elements.
Some examples of beams having a rectangular cross-section show the results of the proposed
method.
The paper is enough well-written (although there are some typos that should be corrected), it has
clear and well-defined goals and, finally, it is focused on an argument very interesting both from
the theoretical and applied point of view. However, very recently they have been published two
papers, see [1, 2], which are focused on damage identification but present several common points
with the submitted manuscript. The Authors should explain what are the main differences with
the mentioned papers. Finally, I believe that the paper should be better address the possible
applications of the presented method.
For all these reasons I suggest to publish the paper on RSOS with minor revisions.
References
7
[1] A. Bilotta, A. Morassi, and E. Turco. Reconstructing blockages in a symmetric duct via quasi-
isospectral horn operators. Journal of Sound and Vibration, 366:149–172, 2016.
[2] A. Bilotta, A. Morassi, and E. Turco. The use of quasi-isospectral operators for damage
detection in rods. Meccanica, doi: 10.1007/s11012-017-0728-8, 2017.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171717)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171717.R1)
10-Jan-2018
Dear Mr Bhat K,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Isospectrals of non-uniform Rayleigh
beams with respect to their uniform counterparts" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
8
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Talha Erdem (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Talha Erdem):
Dear Mr. Bhak K,
Thank you very much for your interest to our journal and for submitting the revised version of
your manuscript. We are glad to inform you that we have found your manuscript suitable for
publication in RSOS.
Best regards,
Dr. Talha Erdem
ppendix A
NON-UNIFORM RAYLEIGH BEAMS ISOSPECTRAL TO A GIVEN
UNIFORM BEAM
MANUSCRIPT SUBMITTED TO
ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE ID: RSOS-171717
Report
The manuscript concerns the search of non-uniform beams isospectral to a given uniform
yleigh beam. The Authors propose a transformation that converts the fourth order
erning differential equation of non-uniform Rayleigh beam into a uniform one. Matching
coefficients of the transformed equation with those of the uniform beam equation
non-uniform beam isospectral to the given uniform beam is obtained. The frequency
ivalence between non-uniform and uniform beams is confirmed by using finite elements.
me examples of beams having a rectangular cross-section show the results of the proposed
thod.
The paper is enough well-written (although there are some typos that should be cor-
ted), it has clear and well-defined goals and, finally, it is focused on an argument very
eresting both from the theoretical and applied point of view. However, very recently
y have been published two papers, see [1, 2], which are focused on damage identification
present several common points with the submitted manuscript. The Authors should
lain what are the main differences with the mentioned papers. Finally, I believe that
paper should be better address the possible applications of the presented method.
For all these reasons I suggest to publish the paper on RSOS with minor revisions.
References
A. Bilotta, A. Morassi, and E. Turco. Reconstructing blockages in a symmetric duct via quasi-isospectral
horn operators. Journal of Sound and Vibration, 366:149–172, 2016.
A. Bilotta, A. Morassi, and E. Turco. The use of quasi-isospectral operators for damage detection in
rods. Meccanica, doi: 10.1007/s11012-017-0728-8, 2017.
Date: December 21, 2017.
1
pendix B
Reply to Reviewers Comments
e: Isospectrals of non-uniform Rayleigh beams with respect to their uniform counterparts
hors: Srivatsa Bhat K, Ranjan Ganguli
would like to thank the reviewers for reviewing our paper. We are thankful for their valuable
gestions and corrections. In the following section, we have tried to reply to the comments to
best of our knowledge. Changes made in the paper are highlighted in yellow in the pdf file.
ply to Comments of First Reviewer
mment: This manuscript describes a novel theoretical study of the vibrational spectra of
chanical beams, treated in the Rayleigh approximation. Specifically, the authors develop a
mework, expressed in Eq. (2.11) and Eq. (2.12), that establishes which non-uniform beams
e the same vibrational spectrum as a specified uniform beam. The authors identify four
es of particular interest, and specify the properties of each class of non-uniform beams.
se results are confirmed through finite-element analysis.
s paper clearly presents a nice result for a useful class of problems. The manuscript is well
ten and the figures illustrate the concepts. I recommend publication in the present form.
ply: We are thankful for the reviewer’s comments.
ply to the Comments of Second Reviewer
mment 1: The title of the paper may be improved. For example, a suggested title could be
spectrals of non-uniform Rayleigh beams with respect to (or in relation to) their uniform
nterparts".
ply: As suggested by the reviewer, we have changed the title of this paper as
spectrals of non-uniform Rayleigh beams with respect to their uniform counterparts”
mment 2,3 and 4: Line above equation (2.1): "omega squared" should be "omega", Line
ve equation (2.3): "uniform beam" should be "uniform Rayleigh beam" and Line above
ation (2.4): "is transformed" should be "can be transformed".
ply: We have done these corrections in the revised paper.
mment 5: Some justification in choosing f, g and m in terms of p and q leading to equation
) should be given.
ply: We have included the justification in page 4 between equations 2.6 and 2.7 (also
hlighted in yellow in the pdf file).
mment 6: Alpha and Beta of equation (2.14) should be clearly defined.
ply: We have added the definition in page 6 between equations 2.14 and 2.15.
mment 7: In equation (2.18), it is not a good idea to use the symbol g for b*h**3 because g is
erally used to denote the acceleration due to gravity.
ply: We have changed the symbols into their functional forms i.e., g to g(x).
mment 8: In the validation of results using finite element method, no mention has been made
ut the number of beam elements used in the analysis. It should be recognized that the finite
ment method is an approximate method and the results are dependent on the number of
ments used in the analysis. It is possible to obtain exact results (exact in a sense within the
ts of the governing differential equation) for the natural frequencies of a tapered Rayleigh
m for different boundary conditions, but to obtain these results concerted efforts need to be
ended which may take the paper beyond its intended purpose. Therefore, this is not a
ndatory requirement for acceptance of the paper.
ply: We have added the number of elements used in the finite element analysis for finding
natural frequencies in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
mment 9: The greatest criticism of all is the absence of mode shape validation results.
ural frequencies on their own are meaningless unless substantiated by some carefully
sen mode shapes. It is disappointing in the extreme that the authors have not presented
de shapes when validating their results. It is necessary to compare mode shapes using
hors' theory with those using the finite element and/or exact methods.
ply: We have included the mode shape validation results in Figures 10, 11 and 12 (pages 16,
and 18) of the revised paper.
mment 10: It is incomprehensible and almost to the height of absurdity that the authors have
quoted Lord Rayleigh's classic text "Theory of Sound" in their list of references. It was after
Lord Rayleigh who conceived for the first time the idea of rotatory inertia in beam vibration
blems and therefore, being the originator of the Rayleigh beam theory should be mentioned
he reference list.
ply: We would like to thank the reviewer for mentioning this point, which we had overlooked.
have added Lord Rayleigh’s reference as Reference 1 of the revised paper.
ply to the Comments of Third Reviewer
mment 1: The Authors should explain what are the main differences with the mentioned
ers. Finally, I believe that the paper should be better address the possible applications of the
sented method.
erences
A. Bilotta, A. Morassi, and E. Turco. Reconstructing blockages in a symmetric duct via quasi-
spectral horn operators. Journal of Sound and Vibration, 366:149–172, 2016.
A. Bilotta, A. Morassi, and E. Turco. The use of quasi-isospectral operators for damage
ection in rods. Meccanica, doi: 10.1007/s11012-017-0728-8, 2017.
ply: We have included the following references in our conclusion (References 22 and 23) and
possible applications inspired by these papers on page 19.
Society Open
