Organization of biogeochemical nitrogen pathways with
switch-like adjustment in fluctuating soil redox conditions
Sanjay Lamba, Soumen Bera, Mubasher Rashid, Alexander B. Medvinsky, Gui-Quan Sun,
Claudia Acquisti, Amit Chakraborty and Bai-Lian Li
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160768.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160768
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 December 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 December 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160768.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Authors used a kinetic modeling approach coupled with dynamical systems theory and microbial
genomics to address an important issue. The results indicated that the biochemical network holds
inherent adaptive capacity to stabilize ammonium and nitrate availability, and that the bistability
in the formation of ammonium is linked to the transient upregulation of the amo-hao mediated
nitrification pathway. The topic is interesting and the analysis is well presented. I would like to
recommend its publication after authors carefully address the following points:
1. Compared to the existing methods and results, authors should elaborate the motivations and
main contribution of this paper in a more clearly way.
2. More descriptions for Fig.1 should be provided.
3.All the parameters used in the analysis should be clearly explained.
4. This study uses the complex network theory. An introduction of complex network is welcome,
e.g., Scientific Reports, 6, 35622, 2016; Scientific Reports, 5: 8222, 2015; Experimental Thermal and
Fluid Science, 60: 157-164, 2015.
5. As a further work, I suggest authors to consider more network measures to analyze the derived
nitrogen biochemical network, e.g., the clustering coefficient entropy(Europhysics Letters, 109:
30005, 2015) and more interesting results are expected.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Zhen Wang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors of this manuscript have shown how belowground nitrogen microbial pathways
regulate bioavailability of ammonium and nitrate forms in fluctuating soil redox conditions. With
3
the use of interesting advanced mathematical tools, the study identifies circuitry structure that
alternatively functions for stabilizing and maintaining bioavailable nitrogen forms, which is an
original result and has not been described previously. I, therefore, recommend following minor
corrections before it goes for the publication:
1. I think that abstract can be improved by briefly mentioning specific results of source and sink
type wiring structure and its functions.
2. Number of current references is limited. It will be good to see more recent supporting
references.
3. Discussion section can easily be shorten by removing some irrelevant stuffs (see the paragraph
line no. 462-505)
4. Table 2 looks very odd in the main text, as it has not been listed any important specific
information. It can be moved to supporting materials.
5. Table S2 (Definition and measuring units of model variables and parameters) can be moved to
main text from the supporting materials.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160768)
28-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Chakraborty
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160768 entitled
"Organization of biogeochemical nitrogen pathways with switch-like adjustment in fluctuating
soil redox conditions" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript. It is important that you detail how you have addressed the reviewers' constructive
criticisms in putting together your revised manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
4
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160768
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 07-Dec-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Your submission has received positive reviews, but a number of points are raised from both
reviewers which would improve the manuscript.
We would therefore like to accept this submission pending these revisions.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Authors used a kinetic modeling approach coupled with dynamical systems theory and microbial
genomics to address an important issue. The results indicated that the biochemical network holds
6
inherent adaptive capacity to stabilize ammonium and nitrate availability, and that the bistability
in the formation of ammonium is linked to the transient upregulation of the amo-hao mediated
nitrification pathway. The topic is interesting and the analysis is well presented. I would like to
recommend its publication after authors carefully address the following points:
1. Compared to the existing methods and results, authors should elaborate the motivations and
main contribution of this paper in a more clearly way.
2. More descriptions for Fig.1 should be provided.
3.All the parameters used in the analysis should be clearly explained.
4. This study uses the complex network theory. An introduction of complex network is welcome,
e.g., Scientific Reports, 6, 35622, 2016; Scientific Reports, 5: 8222, 2015; Experimental Thermal and
Fluid Science, 60: 157-164, 2015.
5. As a further work, I suggest authors to consider more network measures to analyze the derived
nitrogen biochemical network, e.g., the clustering coefficient entropy(Europhysics Letters, 109:
30005, 2015) and more interesting results are expected.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
the authors of this manuscript have shown how belowground nitrogen microbial pathways
regulate bioavailability of ammonium and nitrate forms in fluctuating soil redox conditions. With
the use of interesting advanced mathematical tools, the study identifies circuitry structure that
alternatively functions for stabilizing and maintaining bioavailable nitrogen forms, which is an
original result and has not been described previously. I, therefore, recommend following minor
corrections before it goes for the publication:
1. I think that abstract can be improved by briefly mentioning specific results of source and sink
type wiring structure and its functions.
2. Number of current references is limited. It will be good to see more recent supporting
references.
3. Discussion section can easily be shorten by removing some irrelevant stuffs (see the paragraph
line no. 462-505)
4. Table 2 looks very odd in the main text, as it has not been listed any important specific
information. It can be moved to supporting materials.
5. Table S2 (Definition and measuring units of model variables and parameters) can be moved to
main text from the supporting materials.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160768)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160768.R1)
02-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Chakraborty,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Organization of biogeochemical
nitrogen pathways with switch-like adjustment in fluctuating soil redox conditions" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Dear Editor and Associate Editor,
Thank you very much for the letter of recommendation of minor revision and for the
reviewer comments concerning our manuscript entitled “Organization of biogeochemical
nitrogen pathways with switch-like adjustment in fluctuating soil redox conditions”. These
comments are valuable. We especially found them very useful for revising and improving our
manuscript. We have studied all the comments very carefully and have made corrections
accordingly which we hope that meet the requirements for the publication. The main
corrections in the paper and the responses to the reviewer’s comments are briefly described in
the following write-up. For the details of the revision, please see the revised manuscript in
which the revised/added parts are highlighted in yellow color.
Response to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer #1
1. Reviewer’s comment:
Compared to the existing methods and results, authors should elaborate the motivations and
main contribution of this paper in a more clear way.
Reply:
Thank you for reading our manuscript and giving your comments.
We have added a small portion in the introduction section with two important references
which clearly indicates our overarching goal and the specific issue that we have addressed,
and the related results obtained in this paper.
“…….Accelerated human activity during the past century has doubled the annual transfer of
nitrogen from unavailable atmospheric pool to the biologically available forms (Meunier et al.
2016). The major source of this supply includes heavy use of nitrogen fertilizers, and the
combustion of fossil fuels. How it affects terrestrial ecosystems, which are mostly nitrogen
limited, is poorly understood. In order to address this broad question, it will be important to
know how the nitrogen cycle responses to these changes and maintain its core cycling process
(Bernal et al. 2012)……...”
-Meunier CL, Gundale MJ, Sanchez IS, Liess A (2016) Impact of nitrogen deposition on
forest and lake food webs in nitrogen-limited environments. Global Change Biology 22(1):
164-179.
-Bernal S, Hedin LO, Likens GE, Gerber S, Buso DC (2012) Complex response of the forest
nitrogen cycle to climate change. Proceedings of the national academy of sciences (US)
109(9): 3406-3411.
More descriptions for Fig.1 should be provided.
Reply:
We have changed the figure caption and included a brief description of the connection among
different microbial pathways.
“---------Figure 1: A nitrogen biochemical network constructed with the use of KEGG
nitrogen metabolism database. It consists of interconnected biogeochemical pathways
(Dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA), Assimilatory nitrate reduction,
Denitrification, Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF), Nitrification and Anammox) serving to
biochemically process nitrogenous metabolites and transfer them to next reaction in the
network, with the network deficiency zero. There are a variety of genes encoding enzymes
that catalyze the important transformation reactions of various nitrogen forms ranging from
the oxidation states +5 in nitrate to -3 in ammonium. The ammonium and nitrite act as the
network hubs, connecting relatively maximum number of reactions either as substrate or
product of the biochemical reactions…………..”
3. Reviewer’s comment:
All the parameters used in the analysis should be clearly explained.
Reply:
We have added Table 2 in the main text which includes definition and physical units of all
parameters and variables of the biochemical model.
4. Reviewer’s comment:
This study uses the complex network theory. An introduction of complex network is welcome,
e.g., Scientific Reports, 6, 35622, 2016; Scientific Reports, 5: 8222, 2015; Experimental
Thermal and Fluid Science, 60: 157-164, 2015.
Reply:
Thank you for your comments. We have added a brief introduction for application of
complex network theory in the second paragraph of the introduction section, with all the
relevant references you have mentioned in your comments.
5. Reviewer’s comment:
As a further work, I suggest authors to consider more network measures to analyze the
derived nitrogen biochemical network, e.g., the clustering coefficient entropy (Europhysics
Letters, 109: 30005, 2015) and more interesting results are expected.
Reply:
Thank you for your suggestion. Application of advanced network theory and related
measures will certainly be beneficial for deeper understanding of this system. Our
biochemical systems.
Reviewer #2
1. Reviewer’s comment:
I think that abstract can be improved by briefly mentioning specific results of source and sink
type wiring structure and its functions.
Reply:
Thank you for reading our manuscript and giving your comments and suggestions. We have
revised the abstract by including the following sentences:
“----The bistability is maintained by a pair of complementary subsystems acting as either
source or sink type systems in response to soil redox fluctuations…….”
2. Reviewer’s comment:
Number of current references is limited. It will be good to see more recent supporting
references.
Reply:
We have added five recent references in the introduction section:
(a) Meunier CL, Gundale MJ, Sanchez IS, Liess A (2016) Impact of nitrogen deposition on
forest and lake food webs in nitrogen-limited environments. Global Change Biology 22(1):
164-179.
(b) Bernal S, Hedin LO, Likens GE, Gerber S, Buso DC (2012) Complex response of the
forest nitrogen cycle to climate change. Proceedings of the national academy of sciences (US)
109(9): 3406-3411.
(c) Gao ZK, Cai Q, Yang YX, Dang WD, Zhang SS (2016). Multiscale limited penetrable
horizontal visibility graph for analyzing nonlinear time series. Scientific Reports 6: 35622.
(d) Gao ZK, Yang YX, Fang PC, Jin ND, Xia CY, Hu LD (2015). Multi-frequency complex
network from time series for uncovering oil-water flow structure. Scientific reports 5, 8222.
(e) Gao ZK, Fang PC, Ding MS, Jin ND (2015). Multivariate weighted complex network
analysis for characterizing nonlinear dynamic behavior in two-phase flow. Experimental
Thermal and Fluid Science 60: 157-164.
Discussion section can easily be shorten by removing some irrelevant stuffs (see the
paragraph line no.462-505)
Reply:
We revised this stated paragraph and removed the irrelevant stuffs.
4. Reviewer’s comment:
Table 2 looks very odd in the main text, as it has not been listed any important specific
information. It can be moved to supporting materials.
Reply:
In the revised manuscript, we have removed Table 2 and moved it to supporting materials.
5. Reviewer’s comment:
Table S2 (definition and measuring units of model variables and parameters)can be moved to
main text from the supporting materials.
Reply:
Yes, we have moved this table from supporting materials to main text and inserted it as new
Table 2.
Sincerely,
Amit Chakraborty
(On behalf of all coauthors)
Society Open
