Implementing Parrondo's paradox with two-coin quantum
walks
Jishnu Rajendran and Colin Benjamin
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171599.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171599
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 17 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171599.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
File attached (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In the following, I give comments which are expected to give a readability:
(1) The motivation on using P_R - P_L to measure the paradox should be mentioned more clearly:
a classical case under this measure is a primitive question
(2) In Fig.2 (a), The motivation for the choice of the initial state is not clear. It is possible to
explicitely compute the convergence value by taking the integration on the [0,\infty) integration
range to Theorem1 in
[K] N. Konno, Journal of the Mathematical Society of Japan, Vol.57, No.4,
pp.1179-1195 (2005)
(3) There are many possibilities for the value of P_R-P_L value for large n by changing the initial
state following the result on [K] for the single game. Thus a relationship between the initial state
single game and that of the combination game inducing a paradox should be mentioned.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171599)
14-Dec-2017
Dear Dr BENJAMIN,
The editors assigned to your paper ("How to implement a genuine Parrondo's paradox with
quantum walks?") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-Jan-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171599
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
on behalf of Dr Robert Young (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
The reviewers have raised several issues that need to be addressed by major revisions of this
manuscript. I agree with the first reviewer that the current title is confusing and that better
references should be made to existing literature. In its current form we cannot support the
conclusions that are made in the manuscript.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
File attached
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In the following, I give comments which are expected to give a readability:
(1) The motivation on using P_R - P_L to measure the paradox should be mentioned more clearly:
a classical case under this measure is a primitive question
(2) In Fig.2 (a), The motivation for the choice of the initial state is not clear. It is possible to
explicitely compute the convergence value by taking the integration on the [0,\infty) integration
range to Theorem1 in
[K] N. Konno, Journal of the Mathematical Society of Japan, Vol.57, No.4,
pp.1179-1195 (2005)
(3) There are many possibilities for the value of P_R-P_L value for large n by changing the initial
state following the result on [K] for the single game. Thus a relationship between the initial state
single game and that of the combination game inducing a paradox should be mentioned.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171599)
See Appendix B.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171599.R1)
17-Jan-2018
Dear Dr BENJAMIN,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Implementing Parrondo's paradox
with two coin quantum walks" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Robert Young (Associate Editor) and Miles Padgett (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Report for ”How to implement a genuine Parrondo’s paradox with quantum walks?”
In this work, authors tries to present a scheme to implement ”genuine” Parrondo’s paradox with quantum walk.
”?” in the title and use of ”genuine” is confusing. However, the implementation scheme does not present anything
new to exisiting literature. Explicit reasons for not finding this work suitable for publication is given below.
1. Author’s claim the scheme to be ”genuine” compared to earlier schemes (Ref.[3, 4] in manuscript) by saying that
”asymptotically” schemes in Ref [3] and [4] does not work and their scheme works. In all most all quantum walk
literature ”asymptotic”(limit which is usually infinity) is used when limits are calculated (using limit theorem).
Otherwise, an analytic functions are rigurously obtained to claim any behaviour to be asymptotic. In this work
authors go to upto 1600 steps numerically and calim it as an asymptotic. Though one can intuitively agree from
the numerical result, it can’t be used as ”asymptotic” without analytical proof.
Author’s have not cited even the review articles on quantum walk which present the discription of dy-
namics [Example: https://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4780]. Other papers (https://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304204,
https://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1882) presents the way coin parameters can be used to control probabiltiy distribu-
tion in position space is also missing. They are important for this study.
2. From the well studies quatnum walk dynamics we know that probability of quantum walk distribution can be
controlled using quantum coin operation [Eq. (1) in manuscript]. Which also means PR -PL , winning proposition
in this paper. In coin operation, Eq.(1), combination of a and gamma can be varied to get PR - PL > 0 and
PR - PL < 0. For any individual walk schemes with PR - PL < 0, various combination of sequence of A and B
coin operation can be worked out to get PR - PL > 0. Neither the Ref. [3] cited in this manuscript or section
II of this paper show explicitly that Parrondo paradox does not exisit for any biasing in coin operation UA and
UB in general other than the specific parameter they have chosen. But the statement is very strongly made in
section II.
3. The new scheme has some interesting shift operators [Eq. (6, 7, 8)] which looks complicated to physically realise
in any system. Coin operators are local on invidual coin space but shift operator are combined operators on
entangled state). One can only imagine a 4 - state or 8 - state coin system to implement these kinds of shift
operators. Their should be some clarity into this. Do we have any examples of physical operations on entangled
system which can be used to realised the operators [Eq. (6, 7, 8)]?
Considering the freedom we have in manupilating coin operation and the many recetly studied quantum walk
dynamics using periodic and aperiodic sequence, one can come up with many possobile sequence of coin operatios to
get Parrondo paradox kind of behaviour. Therefore, any scheme which can have some really non-trivial implication
to our undesrstading on dynamics or of some physical significace should be considered for publication and this work
does not fall into that category.
pendix B
r Editor,
thank you for sending us the comments on the paper. Please find below a summary of changes
de and a detailed response to all the comments and queries of the referee.
ards,
in Benjamin (Corresponding author)
mmary of changes made
. In page 1, title of our manuscript is modified to ”Implementing Parrondo’s paradox with two
coin quantum walks”
. In page 1, abstract we have changed ”asymptotic limits” to ”for a large number of steps” in
view of the comments of Referee 1.
. We have added the references S. E. Venegas-Andraca, Quantum walks: a comprehensive re-
view,Quant. Inf. Process (2012) 11: 1015..(Ref.[8]),
C. M. Chandrashekar, R. Srikanth, and Raymond Laflamme, Optimizing the discrete time quan-
tum walk using a SU(2) coin, Phys. Rev. A 82, 019902 (2010) and
B. Tregenna, W. Flanagan, R. Maile and V. Kendon, Controlling discrete quantum walks: coins
and initial states, New Journal of Physics, Volume 5 (2003) to the bibliography and cited them
appropriately as mentioned by Referee 1.
. In section II, we added a pragraph wherein we have mentioned the analytical formula for asymp-
totic convergence of a single coin quantum walk and also verified our numerical results in response
to the comments of Referee 2.
. We have changed ”asymptotic limits” to ”for large number of steps” in section III as well as in
section IV in view of the comments of Referee 1.
. Some typos have been corrected especially in captions of Figs. 2, 3 and 6.
. All the text modifications and additions are highlighted in red in the manuscript for easier
identification.
Referee’s comments are in bold, followed by the our replies.
sponse to the comments of Referee 1
• Author’s claim the scheme to be ”genuine” compared to earlier schemes (Ref.[3,
4] in manuscript) by saying that ”asymptotically” schemes in Ref [3] and [4] does
not work and their scheme works. In all most all quantum walk literature ”asymp-
totic”(limit which is usually infinity) is used when limits are calculated (using limit
theorem). Otherwise, an analytic functions are rigorously obtained to claim any
behavior to be asymptotic. In this work authors go to upto 1600 steps numerically
and claim it as an asymptotic. Though one can intuitively agree from the numerical
result, it can’t be used as ”asymptotic” without analytical proof.
We agree with the Referee’s comment regarding the usage of ”asymptotic” for numerical result.
We have made appropriate changes in the manuscript. We have also corrected the title of the
paper. The new title is ”Implementing Parrondo’s paradox with two coin quantum walks”. We
also apply the analytical results for single coin quantum walk and get the asymptotic value in
conformity with our numerical results, see the paragraph highlighted in red at the end of section
II.
• Author’s have not cited even the review articles on quantum walk which present the
discription of dynamics [Example: https://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4780]. Other papers
(https://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0304204, https://arxiv.org/abs/0711.1882) presents
the way coin parameters can be used to control probability distribution in position
space is also missing. They are important for this study.
We have added all the mentioned references in the manuscript(see Refs.[8,14,15] in bibliography
section of manuscript).
• From the well studies quantum walk dynamics we know that probability of quan-
tum walk distribution can be controlled using quantum coin operation [Eq. (1) in
manuscript]. Which also means PR - PL , winning proposition in this paper. In coin
operation, Eq.(1), combination of a and gamma can be varied to get PR - PL > 0 and
PR - PL < 0. For any individual walk schemes with PR - PL < 0, various combination
of sequence of A and B coin operation can be worked out to get PR -PL > 0. Neither
the Ref. [3] cited in this manuscript or section II of this paper show explicitly that
Parrondo’s paradox does not exist for any biasing in coin operation UA and UB in
general other than the specific parameter they have chosen. But the statement is
very strongly made in section II
In Ref.[2], the conclusion is that for Parrondo’s games with single coin quantum walk, PR - PL is
always negative. Previous works see Refs.[1, 2, 3] also this manuscript have all shown for single
coin quantum walk and for a wide range of angles, the non-existence of Parrondo’s paradox at
large number of steps.
• The new scheme has some interesting shift operators [Eq. (7, 8, 9)] which looks
complicated to physically realise in any system. Coin operators are local on indi-
vidual coin space but shift operator are combined operators on entangled state).
One can only imagine a 4 - state or 8 - state coin system to implement these kinds
of shift operators. Their should be some clarity into this. Do we have any exam-
ples of physical operations on entangled system which can be used to realised the
operators [Eq. (7, 8, 9)]?
In case of two coin quantum walk, the coin space has four basis states (|00i, |01i, |10i, |11i). The
shift operators mentioned in manuscript are quiet natural when a 4-dimensional coin space is
considered. In section IV see Eq.9, we considered a three coin state and hence it has 8 basis
states. Such a coin state is chosen to show occurence of the Parrondo’s paradox for more that
single coin quantum walk. Even though we haven’t analytically shown for a general n-coins,
our hypothesis that the asymmetry in the initial coin state or the shift operators is the reason
behind the paradox and such an asymmetry can be introduced easily in case of a two or higher
coin initial states. In Ref.[4] a quantum walk is modelled with cold atoms as walker. In case
of cold atoms they modelled shift operator and coin operator using optical lattice and lasers,
such a model can be used to physically realise the shift operators in Eqs.(7-9). In Ref.[2], it
has been shown that Parrondo’s paradox does not exist for a single coin quantum walk consid-
ered. In Figs.(5 and 6) in the manuscript we can see that when the initial state is symmetric
i.e., |00i or |11i we don’t see any paradox whereas when the initial state has some asymmetry
we obtain the Parrondo’s paradox. Similarly when an asymmetry is introduced in shift opera-
tor(Eq.8 of manuscript) again we obtain the Parrondo’s paradox. Such shift operators can be
used for quantum algorithms which rely on many coin quantum walks and its non-trivial nature
with Parrondo’s paradox can be helpful for better insights into quantum ratchets and quantum
algorithms.
We thank the Referee for the constructive criticism, the manuscript is better because of his/her
intervention.
sponse to the comments of Referee 2
• The motivation on using PR - PL to measure the paradox should be mentioned more
clearly: a classical case under this measure is a primitive question
One can choose median or average as a definition for winning or losing. In the previous works
Refs. [1, 2] the median PR -PL is used to define a win or a loss. We continue with this criteria in
our work too. A player is considered winner if the probability of finding the particle to the right
of the origin PR is greater than the probability to the left of the origin PL , that is, PR > PL .
However if PL > PR for large enough steps in quantum walks then the player losses. PR -PL will
always give zero for an unbiased classical case. The classical case of the single coin walk is shown
in Ref.[2](Fig.9 in Ref.[2]). Considering the classical limit of the quantum walk with a single coin
discussed in section II, with classical operators Identity(I) and NOT(X) we obtain the classical
results if A = Identity(I) and B = N OT (X) operators are used then for the classical walk we
have PR - PL = 0 for AAAA . . . and BBBB . . . as well as ABAB . . .. This is in conformity
with results of a classical random walk which has a gaussian distribution with mean as well as
median equal to zero. Please see end of section II of our revised manuscript where the aforesaid
statement has been incorporated.
• In Fig.2 (a), The motivation for the choice of the initial state is not clear. It is
possible to explicitly compute the convergence value by taking the integration on
the [0, 8) integration range to Theorem.1 in [K] N. Konno, Journal of the Mathe-
matical Society of Japan, Vol.57, No.4, pp.1179-1195 (2005)
As the Referee has mentioned, it is possible to show the convergence of single coin quantum walk
with repeated action of the same coin operator (either AAAA . . . or BBBB . . .) as obtained in
Fig.2 (a). The analytical form of convergence mentioned in Theorem.1 in N. Konno, Journal of
the Mathematical Society of Japan, Vol.57, No.4, pp.1179-1195 (2005) for a single coin quantum
walk can be used for calculating the asymptotic limit.
q
E = -(1 - 1 - |eia cos ß|2 )<U+03BB> (1)
where,
ieia cos ß(-ei<U+03B3> ) sin ß + ie-ia cos ß(-e-i<U+03B3> ) sin ß
<U+03BB>=
2|eia cos ß |2
where E is the convergence value of the quantum walk. The convergence for the single coin
quantum walk with the coin operator
e cos ß -e-i<U+03B3> sin ß
 ia 
U (a, ß, <U+03B3>) = . (2)
ei<U+03B3> sin ß e-ia cos ß
when the coin operates either AAAA . . . or BBBB . . .( A = U (-51, 45, 0),B = U (0, 88, -16)) is
calculated and found to be -0.227621 and -0.480834 respectively, which is very close to that of
the numerical results found in section II of the manuscript but such an analysis is not found in
literature and also is beyond the scope of this paper when the coin operators A and B are applied
is some sequence(like ABAB . . ., ABB . . .). Hence to make the comparison with AAAA . . . and
BBBB . . . easier we used the numerical results.
• There are many possibilities for the value of PR - PL value for large n by changing
the initial state following the result on [K] for the single game. Thus a relationship
between the initial state single game and that of the combination game inducing a
paradox should be mentioned.
There is no separate relation as such between combination and the single coin. The coin space
and shift operators are all different but in the combination game the initial state matters. We
have showed that asymmetric initial states like |01i or |10i gives a Parrondo’s paradox whereas
|00i or |11i doesn’t(Figs.(5 and 6) in the manuscript). In the single coin game regardless of
initial state or shift operator or coin operator, there is no Parrondo’s paradox.
thank the Referee for the very useful comments, the manuscript is better due to these comments.
ferences
C. M. Chandrashekar, S. Banerjee, Parrondo’s game using a discrete-time quantum walk, Physics
Lett. A 375 (2011) 1553.
M. Li, Y. S. Zhang, G.-C. Guo, Quantum Parrondo’s games constructed by quantum random
walk,Fluct. Noise Lett. 12, 1350024 (2013)
A. P. Flitney, Quantum Parrondo’s games using quantum walks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1209.2252
(2012).
S. Mugel, A. Celi, P. Massignan, J. K. Asbo´th, M. Lewenstein, C. Lobo1, Topological bound
states of a quantum walk with cold atoms, Phys. Rev. A 94, 023631 (2016)
E. Segawa,N. Konno, Limit theorems for quantum walks driven by many coins, International
Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.6, Issue 6, pp.1231-1243 (2008)
Society Open
