Simple graph models of information spread in finite
populations
Burton Voorhees and Ryder Bergerud
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150028.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150028
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150028.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very well written paper dealing with the evolutionary dynamics on seven classes of
graphs (biased cycles, cut cycles, lines, cut lines, dual circular flows, partial bipartite graphs, and
single link graphs). The authors study the graph characteristics such as eigenvalues of the graph
Laplacians, conductances, commutability, hitting times as well as fixation probabilities.
The work nicely extends previously known results and through the study of small graphs it aims
to provide insights into larger graphs. If there is one thing the authors should improve, it would
be to specifically say what the insights for the larger graphs are.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No supporting data are necessary
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors study various properties relevant to the birth-death processes on several classes of
graphs.
While the mathematical results are of potential interest, I found the general introduction into the
studied problem quite insufficient. It would be greatly helpful to the reader if the authors
properly introduced and defined the studied birth-death process, rather than just stating the
resulting equation (1). For instance, the parameter r, presumably the mutation rate, is not even
defined, yet it appears in the equations.
Also, it would be helpful to present the summary of the main original results obtained (which is
in Conclusions) already the introduction.
The authors should further provide more context for the choice of graphs whose properties they
study,
and where possible provide reference in which systems are such graphs encountered.
Throughout the paper, authors refer to "Moran's fixation probability", which is presumably
equation 2, yet it is also not defined. When authors talk about fixation probability, they
presumably talk about single vertex fixation, but that should be again stated explicitly.
3
Finally, not all of the introduced graphs are studied with the introduced structural measures
(hitting times, Laplacian eigenvalues, Communicability, Fixation probabilities...), and it is not
clear why are some measures omitted for some graphs. It would be helpful if a general summary
table was provided, where the value of (at least some of the) metrics for each type of considered
graph would be summarized.
Finally, the Figures should be improved. The y-axis (or z-axis for 3D graph) should be labeled as
well, and if more values (or multiple manifolds in the case of 3d graphs) are shown (for instance
multiple eigenvalues for Laplacian), legend should be provided. In the 3D plots, such as Figure 5,
the points below 0 should have minus sign, but it is missing.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Ben Adlam)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Major comments
I believe there are two main ways the presentation of the manuscript could be improved:
restructuring the manuscript to make it more concise and adding more motivation for the special
graphs that are considered. The manuscript lacks direction and reads like a sequence of explicit
calculations. Consequently, it feels too long and it is hard to keep the general goal in mind. I think
most of the calculations could be moved into supplementary materials and the main text should
focus on discussing and relating those results. Many of the displayed equations seem superfluous
and lots of the figures could be reduced. For example, Table 2 is not very illuminating
considering how much space it requires.
Hopefully, the manuscript would then be shorter and have room to motivate the special graphs.
For example, many of the fixation probabilities appear to have interesting properties under
particular choices of the parameters. This is obscured by choosing to plot the fixation probability
in 3D for all choices of the parameters, instead of focusing on the interesting choices. The Star
graph is currently the simplest example of an amplifier of selection but it looks possible that some
of the graphs discussed in the manuscript are also amplifiers. I feel it would be a great motivation
4
to explore this possibility, especially, if the authors could make some general conjecture about the
relationship of amplifiers to some other simple graph property.
Minor comments
On page 3, the authors should define “fixation equivalent.”
On page 4, there are some other analytical results for fixation probabilities that the authors have
not cited. In particular, see “Martingales and fixation probabilities of evolutionary graphs” by
Monk et al. and “Universality of fixation probabilities in randomly structured populations” by
Adlam and Nowak.
On page 6, hitting times are defined but the choice is not standard. Normally, hitting times are
random variables and one can then talk about their expectations (expected hitting times).
On page 12, the authors write “hence the fixation…the Moran probability.” However, this does
not follow. It is not fixation equivalent to the well-mixed but it can still have the same fixation
probability as the well-mixed (although it turns out not to be the case).
On page 15, the meaning of the forbidden states should be explained. I believe it is because they
are inaccessible from the initial condition of a single mutant.
On page 22, why are the nodes given different sizes in Figure 14?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150028)
31-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Voorhees,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Simple Graph Models of Information Spread in Finite
Populations") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 23-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
5
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Ms Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150028)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Simple Graph Models of Information Spread in Finite Populations
Response to Comments by Referees:
Referee 1:
A. We have included comments in the introduction and final discussion on
results reported in the paper that are valid for graphs of arbitrary size, and
indicated that these results are particularly strong for the partial bipartite
graphs studied.
Referee 2:
A. The paper has been made more concise and we have eliminated the work
reported on cut cycles and line graphs, which was initially included to
connect with the results on line graphs reported in our reference [25]. We
have also eliminated the more extensive calculations.
B. More motivational comments are given in the introduction.
C. More has been said about dual circular flow graphs as amplifiers of selection,
with referral to our reference [23] where this is dealt with in detail for
circular flow graphs. For the (1,2,3) dual circular flow used in the paper as an
example, we have indicated the way that this graph amplifies selection only
for limited ranges of fitness.
D. It is our view that it is too early to try and associate general graph properties
with selection amplification, however, as the initial results shown for partial
bipartite graphs (in particular, the 2D graphs produced at the referees
suggestion) indicate a complex situation for which little current information
is available. We have noted this as a direction for future research.
E. The reviewers minor comments have been addressed, and the two new
references suggested acknowledged.
F. The graph shown in Figure 14 (now Figure 4) shows varying levels, each of
which contains a number of vertices. The different level sizes shown in the
figure was intended to emphasize that each level could have an arbitrary
number of vertices.
Referee 3:
A. We have given a description of the birth-death process and the source of
equation (1), pointing to our references [22] and [23] for greater detail.
B. A summary of results has been given in the introductory section of the paper.
C. A statement of reasons for choice of the graphs studied is included.
D. We have been careful to distinguish “fixation probabilities,” as a general term
that can refer to multiple vertices and “single vertex fixation probability”
which refers to a single vertex.
E. We have taken care of the problem with graph labels.
F. A final table in the discussion shows results obtained for the graphs studied,
together with indicating which of these results are true in general and which
are found only for the specific examples studied.
Society Open
