First indications that northern bottlenose whales are
sensitive to behavioural disturbance from anthropogenic
noise
P. J. O. Miller, P. H. Kvadsheim, F. P. A. Lam, P. L. Tyack, C. Cure, S. L. DeRuiter, L.
Kleivane, L. Sivle, S. P. van I. Jsselmuide, F. Visser, P. J. Wensveen, A. M. von Benda-
Beckmann, L. Martín López, T. Narazaki and S. K. Hooker
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140484.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140484
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 December 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 May 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140484.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Layla Sayigh)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The supplementary material were clear but it was not clear to me how to access the actual data if
I were to have wanted to.
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper is an important contribution to our understanding of how beaked whales respond to
sonar. Given that this group is known to be particularly sensitive to sonar, even data from one
animal represents a valuable contribution. The authors use a variety of innovative measures to
describe the strength of the response, and compare these to a large data set of control data. The
results are quite convincing, with the longest and deepest dive ever recorded for this species
following sonar exposure, and a long duration deviation of diving kinematic and vocal
parameters.
Declines in visual and acoustic detections in the area are strongly suggestive of extreme
sensitivity to sonar in this species, although if there are historical sighting and/or acoustic data
from this area to which the post-exposure data could be compared, in addition to the 24h prior to
exposure, this would be a stronger result.
Specific comments:
The first sentence of the abstract doesn’t really make sense. Why is their history as the most
hunted whale relevant to our understanding of their sensitivity to acoustic disturbance?
Line 92 – “now continues” is awkward and does not make sense
Lin 114 – seems a little odd to say that source level increased linearly in the dB scale, since this is
not linear. I would just say they increased by 1dB per pulse.
Error in track locations of +/- 0.75km seem pretty large – can you state what the resulting error in
calculated RLs would be?
I do not understand lines 169-170 – how was this confirmed?
I think I understand that the dive profile is truncated in the inset of Figure 1A so as to use space
efficiently, but it would be good to mention this in the legend.
The red diamond in Figure 1B is not visible.
I am confused by lines 258-261. I thought Figure 1B showed that for much of the exposure dive
kinematic movement parameters were above the response threshold.
I have a hard time with the box plots in Figure 3. First of all, the description is confusing, as it
sounds like the left panel is data from Jan Mayen and the right from the Gully but in fact it is the
left and right within each panel (if I am understanding correctly). Secondly, how do the +
symbols relate to the color coding? I may be being dense here, but the figure is quite small and it
is hard to resolve all of its features.
I do not understand lines 345-348. Why is the introduction of underwater noise a descriptor of
good environmental status?
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140484)
13-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Miller,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Northern bottlenose whales are highly sensitive to
noise disturbance") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 06-May-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
This is an interesting pa;er on an important and controversial topic. I have a few comments,
below:
1. This is another paper in a growing series of fairly biased experimental studies. While I think
this is one of the better ones, this bias towards effect influences their treatment of the data
throughout. The introduction, beginning with line 65, exemplifies some of the problems
currently involving these studies. It begins with "… have been shown to be highly sensitive to
simulated and real active sonar transmissions…" and then goes on to list one study from AUTEC
and two from Southern California to support this statement. In all cases, they have indeed
documented some fairly strong responses to simulated sonar, using a methodology that creates
some significant artificialities, with a very small number of fine-scale tags. However, the only
5
published responses to real sonar are based on acoustic redistribution and a very small sample of
low-resolution satellite tag movement data from Mesoplodon at AUTEC - both of which provide
very coarse data and no metric of response intensity. To my knowledge (at least based upon
published data), Ziphius in southern California have yet to demonstrate any response to real
sonar, and have in fact been documented specifically not responding to real sonar at much higher
received levels than they respond to simulated sonar. Any small data set documenting sonar
response is highly relevant, while any data set of similar or larger size documenting non-reaction
tends to be ignored. Also, "highly sensitive" is quite debatable for Berardius, given the almost
complete lack of baseline data for this species.
2. I appreciate that this is one of the first studies that has used a simulated sonar signal in a
region where sonar is not routinely used, so it at least reduces the likelihood that you are dealing
with a response to the fact they use a familiar signal in a very non-familiar context, which likely
confounds results in the other study populations much more seriously than is generally
acknowledged in the literature. That said, they never address the range of this population, which
is an important factor when it comes to habituation. Do they know if these whales are always in
this "pristine" area, or do they migrate through areas where they might be experiencing sonar
elsewhere? This is important to note, given the greatly exaggerated responses to simulated sonar
from whales that are quite familiar with the real thing.
3. The use of a “ramp-up” protocol from a vessel at close range is very unlike any situation a
whale would ever encounter with real sonar, which is either on or off (as far as we know). It is
important for these studies to point out the potential effects of an escalating signal and also of
source vessel proximity, particularly when they extrapolate these few experimental responses to
the management of real sonar exposures.
All that being said, this is one of the better papers on this topic. They justify the response
determination pretty well, the collateral sighting rate data they included strengthens their
argument, and they don't overreach too much in their conclusions. However, I would like to see
more acknowledgement of the limitations of this method, particularly as it relates to conclusions
about real sonar exposures, when publishing another study based on N =1.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is an important contribution to our understanding of how beaked whales respond to
sonar. Given that this group is known to be particularly sensitive to sonar, even data from one
animal represents a valuable contribution. The authors use a variety of innovative measures to
describe the strength of the response, and compare these to a large data set of control data. The
results are quite convincing, with the longest and deepest dive ever recorded for this species
following sonar exposure, and a long duration deviation of diving kinematic and vocal
parameters.
Declines in visual and acoustic detections in the area are strongly suggestive of extreme
sensitivity to sonar in this species, although if there are historical sighting and/or acoustic data
from this area to which the post-exposure data could be compared, in addition to the 24h prior to
exposure, this would be a stronger result.
Specific comments:
The first sentence of the abstract doesn’t really make sense. Why is their history as the most
hunted whale relevant to our understanding of their sensitivity to acoustic disturbance?
6
Line 92 – “now continues” is awkward and does not make sense
Lin 114 – seems a little odd to say that source level increased linearly in the dB scale, since this is
not linear. I would just say they increased by 1dB per pulse.
Error in track locations of +/- 0.75km seem pretty large – can you state what the resulting error in
calculated RLs would be?
I do not understand lines 169-170 – how was this confirmed?
I think I understand that the dive profile is truncated in the inset of Figure 1A so as to use space
efficiently, but it would be good to mention this in the legend.
The red diamond in Figure 1B is not visible.
I am confused by lines 258-261. I thought Figure 1B showed that for much of the exposure dive
kinematic movement parameters were above the response threshold.
I have a hard time with the box plots in Figure 3. First of all, the description is confusing, as it
sounds like the left panel is data from Jan Mayen and the right from the Gully but in fact it is the
left and right within each panel (if I am understanding correctly). Secondly, how do the +
symbols relate to the color coding? I may be being dense here, but the figure is quite small and it
is hard to resolve all of its features.
I do not understand lines 345-348. Why is the introduction of underwater noise a descriptor of
good environmental status?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140484)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Dear Editor, Royal Society Open Science,
It is our pleasure to resubmit our manuscript RSOS-140484, formerly entitled: "Northern
bottlenose whales are highly sensitive to noise disturbance"
We thank the reviewers for their helpful comments and suggestions. In this letter, we detail
our response to reviewer comments, below in bold face italics. One substantial change is that
we have changed our title to be: ‘First indications that northern bottlenose whales are
sensitive to behavioural disturbance from anthropogenic noise’
In addition to the changes made in response to the reviewers, we also corrected a few
typographical errors. Minor formatting corrections were made to include Table 1 and Figure
4 within the manuscript rather than as supplementary, given journal guidelines
Thank you for considering our revised manuscript.
Sincerely,
-Patrick Miller for the co-Authors
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
This is an interesting pa;er on an important and controversial topic. I have a few comments,
below:
1. This is another paper in a growing series of fairly biased experimental studies. While I
think this is one of the better ones, this bias towards effect influences their treatment of the
data throughout. The introduction, beginning with line 65, exemplifies some of the problems
currently involving these studies. It begins with "… have been shown to be highly sensitive
to simulated and real active sonar transmissions…" and then goes on to list one study from
AUTEC and two from Southern California to support this statement. In all cases, they have
indeed documented some fairly strong responses to simulated sonar, using a methodology
that creates some significant artificialities, with a very small number of fine-scale tags.
However, the only published responses to real sonar are based on acoustic redistribution and
a very small sample of low-resolution satellite tag movement data from Mesoplodon at
AUTEC - both of which provide very coarse data and no metric of response intensity. To my
knowledge (at least based upon published data), Ziphius in southern California have yet to
demonstrate any response to real sonar, and have in fact been documented specifically not
responding to real sonar at much higher received levels than they respond to simulated
sonar. Any small data set documenting sonar response is highly relevant, while any data set
of similar or larger size documenting non-reaction tends to be ignored. Also, "highly
sensitive" is quite debatable for Berardius, given the almost complete lack of baseline data for
this species.
We deleted the word ‘highly’ as indeed Berardius data indicated a less-strong response.
We note that reviewer 1 wrote that ‘this group is known to be particularly sensitive to
sonar’.
Our research group (3S) has always attempted to treat our experiments in an unbiased
fashion, and many of our papers include conclusion of ‘no apparent effect’ for some sonar
experimental exposures (Miller et al., 2012; 2014). Indeed, we would have published the
results of this bottlenose whale experiment no matter the outcome.
We are not aware of any published study that has shown lack of responses to real sonar at
much higher levels than has been shown for response to ‘simulated’ sonar signals. The
received levels of real sonar in DeRuiter et al., 2013 had received levels rather below the
levels at which most behavioural changes have been identified in experiments with
‘simulated’ sonar.
2. I appreciate that this is one of the first studies that has used a simulated sonar signal in a
region where sonar is not routinely used, so it at least reduces the likelihood that you are
dealing with a response to the fact they use a familiar signal in a very non-familiar context,
which likely confounds results in the other study populations much more seriously than is
generally acknowledged in the literature. That said, they never address the range of this
population, which is an important factor when it comes to habituation. Do they know if these
whales are always in this "pristine" area, or do they migrate through areas where they might
be experiencing sonar elsewhere? This is important to note, given the greatly exaggerated
responses to simulated sonar from whales that are quite familiar with the real thing.
The sonar that we used in our experiment was not intended to simulate US Navy sonar, but
faithfully replicates an actual operational sonar used in towed mode by several European
navies.
There is no information regarding the movements of these beaked whales (Whitehead and
Hooker, 2012). The limited information that does exist for this species is highly
speculative interpretations of a few stomach samples of stranded whales.
We added text to the discussion indicating that it would be helpful to understand the wider
movements of animals in this population. ‘However, we lack information on the ranging
behaviour of this population of whales, so it is possible individuals have experienced sonar
signals elsewhere.’
3. The use of a “ramp-up” protocol from a vessel at close range is very unlike any situation a
whale would ever encounter with real sonar, which is either on or off (as far as we know). It
is important for these studies to point out the potential effects of an escalating signal and also
of source vessel proximity, particularly when they extrapolate these few experimental
responses to the management of real sonar exposures.
We did not extrapolate results of our experiment to management of sonar exposures, which
is indeed a complex task and beyond the scope of this work. However, the manuscript
includes geographic data (Figure 2) which indicated the distance of 5 km from source to
whale at the start of the exposure, so adequate information is available to management
users of this publication.
While the US Navy does not use ramp-up procedures for its sonar use, ‘ramp-up’ is
commonly employed by other navies, including several European navies. Thus, whales in
many oceans will experience sonar in a similar fashion to what was presented in our study.
All that being said, this is one of the better papers on this topic. They justify the response
determination pretty well, the collateral sighting rate data they included strengthens their
argument, and they don't overreach too much in their conclusions. However, I would like to
see more acknowledgement of the limitations of this method, particularly as it relates to
conclusions about real sonar exposures, when publishing another study based on N =1.
As the reviewer notes, we have tried not to ‘over-reach’ in our conclusions, and have
modified the manuscript to further address these concerns:
We toned down our title to be: ‘First indications that northern bottlenose whales are
sensitive to behavioural disturbance from anthropogenic noise’
In the final paragraph, we added: ‘We recommend that more studies of how members of
this species respond to noise sources in their environment should be collected.’
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is an important contribution to our understanding of how beaked whales respond
to sonar. Given that this group is known to be particularly sensitive to sonar, even data from
one animal represents a valuable contribution. The authors use a variety of innovative
measures to describe the strength of the response, and compare these to a large data set of
control data. The results are quite convincing, with the longest and deepest dive ever recorded
for this species following sonar exposure, and a long duration deviation of diving kinematic
and vocal parameters.
Thank you for your positive comments to the manuscript.
Declines in visual and acoustic detections in the area are strongly suggestive of extreme
sensitivity to sonar in this species, although if there are historical sighting and/or acoustic
data from this area to which the post-exposure data could be compared, in addition to the 24h
prior to exposure, this would be a stronger result.
Good suggestion,. Such data do not exist, but would be useful for future studies, so we
added to the discussion: ‘Longer-term observations of animal residency within the Jan
Mayen habitat would be useful to determine the natural degree of fluctuations in whale
numbers, and to better document how habitat might be affected by noise.’
Specific comments:
The first sentence of the abstract doesn’t really make sense. Why is their history as the most
hunted whale relevant to our understanding of their sensitivity to acoustic disturbance?
It is relevant because the population is low in number, so consequences of habitat
degradation might be more serious. We recognize the point made, and the first 2 sentences
have been changed to: ‘Though northern bottlenose whales were the most heavily hunted
beaked whale, we have little information about this species in its remote habitat of the
north Atlantic ocean. Underwater anthropogenic noise and disruption of their natural
habitat may be major threats, given the sensitivity of other beaked whales to such noise
disturbance.’
Line 92 – “now continues” is awkward and does not make sense
We changed, ‘now continues to be a potential threat’ to ‘is a potential threat to the
recovery of the species’.
Lin 114 – seems a little odd to say that source level increased linearly in the dB scale, since
this is not linear. I would just say they increased by 1dB per pulse.
Changed as suggested.
Error in track locations of ± 0.75km seem pretty large – can you state what the resulting error
in calculated RLs would be?
The primary source of uncertainty is overall range due to the time-synchronization.
Relative movements within the exposure period will be more precise.
However, the received levels were not calculated, but were measured directly from the
acoustic recordings on the Dtags. Thus, those results were not sensitive to possible errors
in range.
I do not understand lines 169-170 – how was this confirmed?
We added: “by inspection of the data to confirm that overall ODBA values were consistent
over the time period of the tag deployment”
I think I understand that the dive profile is truncated in the inset of Figure 1A so as to use
space efficiently, but it would be good to mention this in the legend.
This was added to the legend as requested
The red diamond in Figure 1B is not visible.
OK, we improved the visibility of the symbol.
I am confused by lines 258-261. I thought Figure 1B showed that for much of the exposure
dive kinematic movement parameters were above the response threshold.
The confusion seems to arisen because we mistakenly used the word ‘kinematic’ in the
figure legend to refer to the ‘movement’ statistics.
We deleted ‘kinematic’ from before ‘movement patterns’ in the Figure legend and clarified
throughout the manuscript (including the abstract) which test was being referred to.
I have a hard time with the box plots in Figure 3. First of all, the description is confusing, as
it sounds like the left panel is data from Jan Mayen and the right from the Gully but in fact it
is the left and right within each panel (if I am understanding correctly). Secondly, how do the
+ symbols relate to the color coding? I may be being dense here, but the figure is quite small
and it is hard to resolve all of its features.
As noted in the legend, the ‘+’ symbols are part of each box plot, and represent extreme
data points. This is an efficient figure as a lot of information is contained in the figure.
We have improved the figure legend for clarity.
I do not understand lines 345-348. Why is the introduction of underwater noise a descriptor
of good environmental status?
We reworded this section to be more complete and clear.
Society Open
