Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested
macaques (Macaca nigra)
Jérôme Micheletta, Jamie Whitehouse, Lisa A. Parr, Paul Marshman, Antje Engelhardt and
Bridget M. Waller
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150109.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150109
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 10 March 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 17 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 30 April 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140150.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes. Raw data provided.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript addresses the interesting topic of face processing in non-human primates and
adds this knowledge by assessing the effect of familiarity on a MTS task in a previously untested
macaque species. The paper is well written. The main weakness of this paper is the very small
number of subjects and thus the difficulty in generalising the findings. However, the authors are
careful not to draw any strong conclusions from the data and clearly point out the limits of the
study in a thorough discussion. Given the sound methodology and the remit of the journal, I
think the study appropriate for publication in Open Science.
L32. By bias you mean they were better at discriminating higher-ranking individuals?
L48. It is possible that not all primates rely on facial cues for individual recognition.
L122. Point out here that the order of task 1 and 2 was counterbalanced across subjects.
Results – why were a number of models not compared rather than just the global versus null
model?
In the discussion, a p value of 0.089 is discussed as a trend towards increased accuracy in the UIR
task but the trend of 0.064 towards taking longer to respond to a dominant exemplar in the UIR
task is not discussed. The trend towards increased response time for dominant individuals in the
UIR might reflect a hesitancy when viewing an unknown dominant individual and contradicts
the statement that the results indicate that dominance states cannot be inferred from facial cues
(L413).
It would be more consistent to consider all trends as either non-significant results or possible
small effects.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The paper does not make mention to the supplementary data file.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors examined face recognition in crested macaques. They used a computerized match to
sample paradigm and presented both familiar and unfamiliar conspecific faces as stimuli in the
task. There were no differences in performance matching familiar or unfamiliar faces. Though
performance in general was not terribly high.
One strength of the paper is that it does add to the body of knowledge concerning face
discrimination and recognition in non-human species by testing a novel species. The field has
been fairly limited in that regard.
However, there are some serious issues with the way in which the study was designed and the
conclusions the authors would like to make based on the design (addressed at the end).
Methods
Parts of the methods section would benefit from clarification about specific details of the design
and methodology. For instance, it was not clear in the text the number of test trials versus the
number of control trials presented in each session. When reading “24 unique trials repeated
twice” in the text, it was assumed that this meant 24 test trials, when in fact according to Fig 3 this
may actually have been 40 control trials and 8 test trials. The figure definitely helps clarify this,
but the text could use modification to make this clearer as well.
Lines 178-179 – “after the initial response, two comparison…” What is this “initial response”?
Were subjects required to select the sample image? This is not included in the description of the
procedure.
Procedure – it was not clear how many photos were used to depict each individual, in either the
unfamiliar or familiar stimulus sets. This information should be provided.
Training – virtually no information is provided about the training process, namely how long it
took to train subjects. It is also not clear whether any of the images used in the training process
were also used during testing. Or if the individuals depicted in the training process were also
used during testing, although with new photos.
Did the control trials use the same images used during test trials?
Line 246 – perhaps change the word “but” in this sentence to “expect”, if it is to mean that the
females did not see images of themselves.
Data analysis – reaction time, lines 302-303 - After removal of outliers, visual inspection was used
to determine whether reaction times appeared normally distributed. This should be tested
statistically. Reaction times are often highly skewed and require transformation based on the
degree of skewness. Therefore, little can be concluded from any analyses performed using raw
reaction time values if this was not statistically confirmed to be normally distributed.
Results, lines 378-380. The authors say that the subjects performed slightly better when they
shared a strong bond with the match rather than a weak bond. While they do acknowledge that
this was not statistically significant, it is actually nowhere near significant with a p-value of 0.434.
I assume their statement comes from a visual inspection of figure 7. However, this statement (and
interpretation) is highly misleading and not representative of the actual data.
Results, lines 393-394. The sentence is a bit confusing – “Subjects tended to take longer to
complete a trial if the sample and match individuals were higher-ranking than the foil
individual”. The sample and the match are the same individual, yes? Then perhaps removing the
‘s’ from the word ‘individuals’ would make that clearer.
At a couple of points in the results you refer to Table X – is this in the supplementary materials?
4
Discussion – the first line of the discussion states that it was demonstrated that crested macaques
can discriminate faces of familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics. However, I am not sure where in
the results they ever clearly demonstrated this. Rarely did subjects reach the authors’ arbitrarily
set level of 75% correct. Performance appeared to be more consistently around 60-65%, which is
just above chance levels and not entirely convincing that subjects could match familiar and
unfamiliar conspecific faces.
That said, this likely is due to the testing procedure that was implemented by the authors. The
current design uses a small, limited number of trials and exemplars to examine whether subjects
were able to correctly match the identity of the individuals depicted in the images, and then
repeatedly presents the same trials over and over again. Other research (e.g. Katz et al 2002;
Wright & Katz 2006; Truppa et al 2010) has shown that when you present limited exemplars, such
as what was done here, this reduces the likelihood of subjects learning the concept and
generalizing to novel exemplars. While subjects here may know the match-to-sample rule and
were able to use it to match identical images of faces or clip art, it is highly unlikely they
understood they were to match using the concept of identity. And therefore did not generalize
identity of the individual in the sample across multiple viewpoints to reliability or consistently
select the correct match image. This is reflected in less than remarkably positive performance,
highly variable performance, both within and between subjects, and that performance declined
over time. Therefore, one cannot really conclude much about actual face discrimination and
recognition abilities in crested macaques from this study design.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Helene Meunier)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes it is.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Review of MS RSOS-140150
General comment
This research paper focuses on face processing in a still understudied but very socially interesting
species, the crested macaque. The authors investigate both if the crested macaques show better
5
performances for discriminating faces of familiar versus unfamiliar conspecifics and if social
factors (i.e. dominance status and social bonds) could influence their accuracy in face recognition.
Experimental protocols comply with ethical standard, subjects had unrestricted access to the
testing unit and could come and go when they pleased. Statistical analysis responds to high
technical standard. The main weakness of this study lies in the small number of subjects (3) but
the statistical analyses take it into account and in spite of the little number of tested individuals,
results are convincing.
Conclusions are supported by the data and the authors are cautious in their conclusions in
regards to the small number of subjects.
In summary, this research provides novel and interesting data and I thus recommend this
manuscript for publication in Royal Society Open Science. I just have a few minor points listed
below.
Introduction
The introduction is clear and well structured. However, you could mention that monkeys seem to
have mental representations of the dominance hierarchy of their group members (e.g. Bovet &
Washburn 2003; Cheney & Seyfarth 1990, 2007).
Methods
The methodology is globally well described and detailed.
L177: please specify how you trained the subjects to touch the screen three times in rapid
succession.
L188: please specify (if true, but I suppose/hope it is) that the pictures of unknown conspecifics
you used in the training procedure was pictures of different individuals than the ones you used
in the UIR task.
L202: replace “of the five individuals subject to the experiment.” by “of five individuals,
including our three subjects and the two other group members.”
L226: not clear, please specify here that the 24 unique trials include both tests trials and controls
for more legibility. (idem for line 253).
Figure 3: In the phase 2 of Dru & Sat for FIR tests, you wrote “12 test trials + 26 controls”. Did you
mean “12 test trials + 36 controls”?
L266: replace “of the subject” by “of the subjects”.
Results
L347: what do you mean by “visual inspection”? Please explain. I would really appreciate to have
access to Figure S1.
Discussion
L458: please insert “our” in front of “crested macaques”.
Hélène MEUNIER
PhD in Ethology-Primatology
Research and Welfare Manager
Primatology Centre of Strasbourg University
Fort Foch
67207 Niederhausbergen
France
+33 (0) 3 88 13 78 78
hmeunier@unistra.fr
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140150)
18-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Micheletta:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140150 entitled "Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested
macaques (Macaca nigra)" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 18-May-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140150)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150109.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Helene Meunier)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
7
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Authors took all my comments into account and corrected their manuscript according to my
suggestions, so I recommend this paper for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Hélène MEUNIER
Primatology Centre of Strasbourg University
Fort Foch
67207 Niederhausbergen
France
+33 (0) 3 88 13 78 78
hmeunier@unistra.fr
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors have addressed the main concerns with this revision.
8
I do have a couple other comments, though, that would help strengthen/clarify the points of the
paper.
For Figures 7 and 8, please specify in the captions that only familiar (FIR) trials are depicted.
I am hesitant about Figure 4 because if one just looks at that figure, they would conclude that
participants did not perform well on this task, especially for FIR trials, as it shows mean
performance of 50% over all trials. This is somewhat counter to the fact that you explicitly state
that subjects performed above chance on all tasks. Therefore, what one concludes from the figure
may not be what you want the take home message of the study to be. It may even be beneficial to
remove this figure entirely.
Lastly, the authors analyzed whether there was an effect of dominance in the UIR trials. How was
dominance determined? Please provide information about this in the methods, such as where you
specify how the dominance and social bonds of the participant group was calculated (lines 145-
151).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150109)
15-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Micheletta
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150109 entitled
"Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
9
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 24-Apr-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
10
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150109.R1)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
label_version_3
RSOS-140150
Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca
nigra)
Jérôme Micheletta, Jamie Whitehouse, Lisa A. Parr, Paul Marshman, Antje Engelhardt,
Bridget M. Waller
We are grateful for the constructive comments of the editor and the two reviewers and will
ddress them point-by-point. For clarity, the original comment is presented in italics and
ollowed by our response (with corresponding line numbers in the new version of the
anuscript when appropriate).
. Reviewer 1:
1.1. The manuscript addresses the interesting topic of face processing in non-human
primates and adds this knowledge by assessing the effect of familiarity on a MTS task
in a previously untested macaque species. The paper is well written. The main
weakness of this paper is the very small number of subjects and thus the difficulty in
generalising the findings. However, the authors are careful not to draw any strong
conclusions from the data and clearly point out the limits of the study in a thorough
discussion. Given the sound methodology and the remit of the journal, I think the study
appropriate for publication in Open Science.
hank you!
1.2. L32. By bias you mean they were better at discriminating higher-ranking individuals?
es. We have reformulated this sentence to be more explicit: (l.33-35) “However, the
ubjects were better at discriminating higher-ranking familiar individuals, but not
nfamiliar ones.”
1.3. L48. It is possible that not all primates rely on facial cues for individual recognition.
es. We did not mean to imply that vision is the only sense that can be used for individual
ecognition; only that individual recognition (regardless of the sensory modality used) is
ecessary to live in a complex group. We have reformulated this sentence to be clearer:
l.47-50) “In addition, primates often live in complex social groups with highly
ndividualized and complex social relationships, and so need to accurately distinguish
etween individuals. Several species can use visual cues present on the face to discriminate
ndividuals from still photographs”.
1.4. L122. Point out here that the order of task 1 and 2 was counterbalanced across
subjects.
We have added this information as requested. (l.125-126) “The order of the tasks was
ounterbalanced across subjects”.
1.5. Results – why were a number of models not compared rather than just the global
versus null model?
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
ur aim was to test a set of predictors that were likely to influence the macaques’
erformances given previous studies on the topic and with this species. We are not trying to
ind the best model, which is why we have not included a model selection analysis.
First, we compared the null model (no predictor) to the full model (including
redictors) to show that the predictors included in the full model have a significant
xplanatory value [1,2]. This is necessary because predictors can be significant while the
odel is not actually different from the null model. Second, when categorical predictors
ith more than two levels are included in a model (e.g. stimulus sets), we need to compare
he model including this predictor to a model without this predictor to assess the overall
ignificance of the model. This is necessary because the default procedure implemented in
he package we used (lme4 for R) only compares the values of the different categories to a
eference category (e.g. stimulus set 1 vs. 2, 1 vs. 3, 1 vs. 4 etc.).
1.6. In the discussion, a p value of 0.089 is discussed as a trend towards increased accuracy
in the UIR task but the trend of 0.064 towards taking longer to respond to a dominant
exemplar in the UIR task is not discussed. The trend towards increased response time
for dominant individuals in the UIR might reflect a hesitancy when viewing an
unknown dominant individual and contradicts the statement that the results indicate
that dominance states cannot be inferred from facial cues (L413). It would be more
consistent to consider all trends as either non-significant results or possible small
effects.
We have modified the discussion according to the reviewer’s comment. All p-values under
.1 are discussed as trends. (l.420-423) “The macaques also tended to take longer to
espond when viewing faces of unfamiliar high-ranking individuals, which suggests that
hey could infer some information regarding the social status of unfamiliar individuals from
acial cues only”.
. Reviewer 2:
2.1. The authors examined face recognition in crested macaques. They used a
computerized match to sample paradigm and presented both familiar and unfamiliar
conspecific faces as stimuli in the task. There were no differences in performance
matching familiar or unfamiliar faces. Though performance in general was not
terribly high.
We agree that performances were not terribly high. However, they are comparable to
revious results obtained with other macaques tested in similar tasks [3,4]. As suggested by
eviewer 2, it is possible that the small number of trials used in the study made it difficult
or the macaques to attain higher performances. A consideration of the relative poor
erformance is now included in the discussion (l.488-506). We argue that the level of
erformance is likely to be the result of a motivation issue (see section 2.13 below for
etails), which is very hard to avoid in zoo settings.
2.2. One strength of the paper is that it does add to the body of knowledge concerning face
discrimination and recognition in non-human species by testing a novel species. The
field has been fairly limited in that regard. However, there are some serious issues
with the way in which the study was designed and the conclusions the authors would
like to make based on the design (addressed at the end).
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
We hope that the changes made throughout the manuscript, as well as our answers will be
ufficient to address these concerns.
2.3. Parts of the methods section would benefit from clarification about specific details of
the design and methodology. For instance, it was not clear in the text the number of
test trials versus the number of control trials presented in each session. When reading
“24 unique trials repeated twice” in the text, it was assumed that this meant 24 test
trials, when in fact according to Fig 3 this may actually have been 40 control trials and
8 test trials. The figure definitely helps clarify this, but the text could use modification
to make this clearer as well.
he text has been modified to clarify this point. (l.231 & l.260) “24 unique trials including
est and control, repeated twice”. We have also added extensive details about the training to
he supplemental materials (see ESM1).
2.4. Lines 178-179 – “after the initial response, two comparison…” What is this “initial
response”? Were subjects required to select the sample image? This is not included in
the description of the procedure.
he initial response consisted of touching the sample 3 times in rapid succession. This is
learly stated in the previous sentence (l.180-181): “First, we required subjects to orient
owards a single image on the screen (hereafter, the sample) by touching it three times in
apid succession”.
2.5. Procedure – it was not clear how many photos were used to depict each individual, in
either the unfamiliar or familiar stimulus sets. This information should be provided.
ach stimulus was made from a unique photo. There were as many unique photos as unique
timuli in each task (l.220-221 for the unfamiliar task): “We used twelve unique stimulus
ets (36 unique pictures of 24 different individuals) in this task”. This information was
ndeed missing for the familiar task so we have now included it; Thank you for pointing this
ut (l.254-255): “We used 12 unique stimulus sets (36 unique pictures of 4 different
ndividuals) in this task”.
2.6. Training – virtually no information is provided about the training process, namely
how long it took to train subjects. It is also not clear whether any of the images used in
the training process were also used during testing. Or if the individuals depicted in the
training process were also used during testing, although with new photos.
We have added additional detailed information regarding the training process in the ESM1.
he images used in the training we never used during testing and the individuals depicted
n the training were never used in the tests. Specifically, we used pictures of crested
acaques held in various UK zoo collections during training and pictures of wild
ndividuals during the tests. This is now clearly stated in the manuscript (l.192-193).
2.7. Did the control trials use the same images used during test trials?
o, we used different images. This information is now included in the description of the
rocedure (Unfamiliar task: l.225-227; Familiar task: l.256-258): “In control trials, the
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
ample and match were identical photos of an unfamiliar conspecific (different to the ones
sed in the test trials) and the foil depicted an unfamiliar rhesus macaque”.
2.8. Line 246 – perhaps change the word “but” in this sentence to “expect”, if it is to mean
that the females did not see images of themselves.
his has been corrected (l.252).
2.9. Data analysis – reaction time, lines 302-303 - After removal of outliers, visual
inspection was used to determine whether reaction times appeared normally
distributed. This should be tested statistically. Reaction times are often highly skewed
and require transformation based on the degree of skewness. Therefore, little can be
concluded from any analyses performed using raw reaction time values if this was not
statistically confirmed to be normally distributed.
his was not explained clearly so we have now tried to improve it. The reaction times used
s the dependent variable were log-transformed for the analysis (we did not analyse the
aw reaction times). This is now clearly stated in the analysis section. (l.310) “Reaction
imes were log-transformed to approximate normal distribution.” Given the number of trial
nalysed, tests of normality before model construction are not usually recommended as the
ower of a Shapiro-Wilk (or Kolmogorov-Smirnov) test would be very high, and so even
mall deviations from normality will lead to a significant result.
The procedure we have followed is the common procedure recommended when using
LMMs. Following Zuur and colleagues [5] we assessed the validity of the model graphically
see model diagnostic plots below) by inspecting normality of the residuals of the DV,
ather than assessing normality of the raw dependent variable. All visual inspections
ndicate that the model is valid.
2.10. Results, lines 378-380. The authors say that the subjects performed slightly better
when they shared a strong bond with the match rather than a weak bond. While they
do acknowledge that this was not statistically significant, it is actually nowhere near
significant with a p-value of 0.434. I assume their statement comes from a visual
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
inspection of figure 7. However, this statement (and interpretation) is highly
misleading and not representative of the actual data.
We have removed this statement from the results. (l.386-388) “In the FIR task, subjects’
erformances were similar regardless of whether they shared a strong or weak bond with
he match individual (ß = 0.143, SE = 0.183, P =0.434, figure 7)”.
2.11. Results, lines 393-394. The sentence is a bit confusing – “Subjects tended to take
longer to complete a trial if the sample and match individuals were higher-ranking
than the foil individual”. The sample and the match are the same individual, yes? Then
perhaps removing the ‘s’ from the word ‘individuals’ would make that clearer.
his has been corrected.
2.12. At a couple of points in the results you refer to Table X – is this in the supplementary
materials?
espite repeated searches, we could not find any reference to Table X in the submitted
ersion of the manuscript. We are only referring to table 1, which should be the only table
n the manuscript. Table 1 is visible below the reference list (p29).
2.13. Discussion – the first line of the discussion states that it was demonstrated that
crested macaques can discriminate faces of familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics.
However, I am not sure where in the results they ever clearly demonstrated this.
Rarely did subjects reach the authors’ arbitrarily set level of 75% correct.
Performance appeared to be more consistently around 60-65%, which is just above
chance levels and not entirely convincing that subjects could match familiar and
unfamiliar conspecific faces. That said, this likely is due to the testing procedure that
was implemented by the authors. The current design uses a small, limited number of
trials and exemplars to examine whether subjects were able to correctly match the
identity of the individuals depicted in the images, and then repeatedly presents the
same trials over and over again. Other research (e.g. Katz et al 2002; Wright & Katz
2006; Truppa et al 2010) has shown that when you present limited exemplars, such
as what was done here, this reduces the likelihood of subjects learning the concept
and generalizing to novel exemplars. While subjects here may know the match-to-
sample rule and were able to use it to match identical images of faces or clip art, it is
highly unlikely they understood they were to match using the concept of identity.
And therefore did not generalize identity of the individual in the sample across
multiple viewpoints to reliability or consistently select the correct match image. This
is reflected in less than remarkably positive performance, highly variable
performance, both within and between subjects, and that performance declined over
time. Therefore, one cannot really conclude much about actual face discrimination
and recognition abilities in crested macaques from this study design.
We acknowledge that the size of our stimulus set is small compared to the studies
entioned here, which could be problematic, and have included this in the discussion
l.488-506, see also section 2.1). We would argue, however, that it is unlikely that this
eans the macaques did not match the pictures based on identity. The alternative, lower-
evel explanation would be that they learnt the visual appearance of the stimulus sets and
sed associative learning to complete the task. If this was the case, then the percentage of
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
uccess should be a lot higher since this is a basic skill and the number of association to
emember is not high. If the macaques did not understand the task at all and were only
esponding randomly then their performances would be centred around 50%. Although not
erribly high, the performances of the macaques tested in this study were consistently
bove chance level of 50%.
We believe that the explanation for the macaques’ performances might lie in the
pecificities of our experimental setting and the general procedures we used. Specifically,
e tested animals who belonged to a social group and whose group-mates were often
aiting near the testing area (outdoor platform, see figure 1). These social distractions
ere unavoidable in this study and may impact negatively on the macaques’ performances.
t is also worth mentioning that unlike working in research facilities, working in zoos
equires a number of compromises. In our case, for dietary reasons, we were limited in the
umber of trials we could conduct each days. We were also limited in the types of food
tems that we could use as rewards. All these reasons (social distractions, limited number of
rials, limited food rewards) could have reduced the macaques’ motivations and therefore
owered their performances.
It is clear that these issues can be problematic when studying animals’ cognition.
owever, if we want to further our knowledge by studying novel species, we need to be
eady to relax some constraints in the design of our experiments even if it comes at a cost in
erms of reduced controlled conditions. Only then will researchers be able to access and test
he abilities of rare, endangered and socially interesting species (such as crested
acaques), which are often housed in zoos under various constraints. We believe that
ccess to these populations is vital to address important questions regarding the evolution
nd function of socio-cognitive skills.
. Reviewer 3:
3.1. This research paper focuses on face processing in a still understudied but very socially
interesting species, the crested macaque. The authors investigate both if the crested
macaques show better performances for discriminating faces of familiar versus
unfamiliar conspecifics and if social factors (i.e. dominance status and social bonds)
could influence their accuracy in face recognition. Experimental protocols comply with
ethical standard, subjects had unrestricted access to the testing unit and could come
and go when they pleased. Statistical analysis responds to high technical standard.
The main weakness of this study lies in the small number of subjects (3) but the
statistical analyses take it into account and in spite of the little number of tested
individuals, results are convincing. Conclusions are supported by the data and the
authors are cautious in their conclusions in regards to the small number of subjects. In
summary, this research provides novel and interesting data and I thus recommend this
manuscript for publication in Royal Society Open Science. I just have a few minor
points listed below.
hank you!
3.2. The introduction is clear and well structured. However, you could mention that
monkeys seem to have mental representations of the dominance hierarchy of their
group members (e.g. Bovet & Washburn 2003; Cheney & Seyfarth 1990, 2007).
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
We have followed this recommendation: (l.90-92) “a number of playback studies showed
ome species seem to have mental representations of kin and dominance relationships
ithin their group [16,23].”
3.3. L177: please specify how you trained the subjects to touch the screen three times in
rapid succession.
etailed information regarding the training of the animals is now included in the ESM. One
f the very first steps of the training was to train the macaques to touch the screen once to
btain a food reward. Once they mastered this simple task, we required the macaques to
ouch the screen three times within 5 s to progress. They all did this spontaneously since
hey were used to get a food item after pressing the screen once. When no reward was
btained, they just kept touching the screen. After this, the next stages of the MTS
rocedure were added incrementally. The initial training was conducted with pictures of
he actual food rewards, the later stages with cliparts, the final stages with pictures of
onspecifics.
3.4. L188: please specify (if true, but I suppose/hope it is) that the pictures of unknown
conspecifics you used in the training procedure was pictures of different individuals
than the ones you used in the UIR task.
es, the pictures used in the training phase were different from the pictures used in the test
hases. Specifically, we used pictures of crested macaques held in various UK zoo
ollections during training and pictures of wild individuals during the tests.
3.5. L202: replace “of the five individuals subject to the experiment.” by “of five individuals,
including our three subjects and the two other group members.”
his has been corrected (l.206-207).
3.6. L226: not clear, please specify here that the 24 unique trials include both tests trials
and controls for more legibility. (idem for line 253).
his has been corrected (l.231 and 260).
3.7. Figure 3: In the phase 2 of Dru & Sat for FIR tests, you wrote “12 test trials + 26
controls”. Did you mean “12 test trials + 36 controls”?
es, these typos have been corrected.
3.8. L266: replace “of the subject” by “of the subjects”.
his has been corrected (l.274).
3.9. L347: what do you mean by “visual inspection”? Please explain. I would really
appreciate to have access to Figure S1.
y visual inspection, we mean that by looking at the pictures side by side (as in figure S1,
ee also below) we could not see any obvious difference (e.g. brightness, contrast,
harpness, head orientation etc.) between the stimulus sets on which macaques were
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
ighly/poorly successful and the others. Please note that using Photoshop’s colour match
ool, we matched the pictures for contrast, brightness and that the same camera was used
o take all pictures. Sharpness was also adjusted with Photoshop.
We apologise if the electronic supplementary material was not accessible. I am not sure
hy this was the case. I can confirm that the ESM has been successfully uploaded in the
evised version. For ease of access, the figure is also included at the end of this document.
3.10. L458: please insert “our” in front of “crested macaques”.
We have followed the reviewer’s suggestion but to avoid ambiguity regarding ownership of
he macaques, we have reformulated the reviewer’s suggestion as: (l.466) “the crested
acaques tested in this study”.
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
he macaques performed poorly on the stimulus sets framed in red and were highly
uccessful on the stimulus sets framed in green. See also figure 5.
Appendix B
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
label_version_4
RSOS-150109.R1
Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca
nigra)
Jérôme Micheletta, Jamie Whitehouse, Lisa A. Parr, Paul Marshman, Antje Engelhardt,
Bridget M. Waller
We are grateful for the constructive comments of the editor and the two reviewers and will
ddress them point-by-point. For clarity, the original comment is presented in italics and
ollowed by our response (with corresponding line numbers in the new version of the
anuscript when appropriate).
. Reviewer 3:
1.1. Authors took all my comments into account and corrected their manuscript according
to my suggestions, so I recommend this paper for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
hank you!
. Reviewer 2:
2.1. The authors have addressed the main concerns with this revision. I do have a couple
other comments, though, that would help strengthen/clarify the points of the paper.
hank you, we have addressed your comments below.
2.2. For Figures 7 and 8, please specify in the captions that only familiar (FIR) trials are
depicted.
his has been added to the captions of figure 7 and 8.
2.3. I am hesitant about Figure 4 because if one just looks at that figure, they would
conclude that participants did not perform well on this task, especially for FIR trials,
as it shows mean performance of 50% over all trials. This is somewhat counter to the
fact that you explicitly state that subjects performed above chance on all tasks.
Therefore, what one concludes from the figure may not be what you want the take
home message of the study to be. It may even be beneficial to remove this figure
entirely.
We would prefer to keep figure 4 and show the results as they are. Note that this figure is
sed to illustrate the comparison of the mean performances across all trials in both tasks
as indicated in the legend). This is different from performances of the last two consecutive
essions (the criterion to progress in the task) and which is given in table 1.
2.4. Lastly, the authors analyzed whether there was an effect of dominance in the UIR
trials. How was dominance determined? Please provide information about this in the
methods, such as where you specify how the dominance and social bonds of the
participant group was calculated (lines 145-151).
icheletta et al. Familiar and unfamiliar face recognition in crested macaques (Macaca nigra)
We have added a sentence to clarify this point. (l.150-151) “Similar measures of dominance
ere obtained from previous studies for the unfamiliar individuals used as stimuli [32,42]”.
pecifically, JM has collected data about the social relationships of the wild individuals used
n this study for a previous project.
Society Open
