Image-based modelling of lateral magma flow: the
Basement Sill, Antarctica
Nick Petford and Seyed Mirhadizadeh
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161083.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161083
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 December 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 11 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 29 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 3 May 2017
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-161083.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Bruce Marsh)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Remarks by Bruce Marsh on the manuscript:
Image based modelling of lateral magma flow:
The Basement Sill, Antarctica
by
Nick Petford and Seyed Mirhadizadeh
General: In short, this is a refreshing, innovative, and very interesting piece of work. It is well
written, concise, engaging, and thought provoking. It is novel in that it presents a straightforward
model of processes that seem obvious in the field, but are often difficult to quantify given the
unusual geometries and the unusual rheology of magmatic slurries. Moreover, even though it
does not include temperature and chemical effects, once the overall flow behavior has been
elucidated, these effects can be added in to further verify the present results. The 3-D effects,
although necessarily speculative – given that full 3-D field exposures are virtually unknown –
they are truly insightful and of practical importance as unusual field relations, hitherto confusing,
may be the result of such effects. Overall, having performed broadly similar (unpublished)
numerical studies myself, and having spent 20 years studying the Basement Sill, this has been a
joy to read.
I applaud the persistence of the authors in performing this work. It must, of course, be
published with only very minor changes.
Specifics:
P 2, L18: earth to Earth, proper noun for planets. And same line, missing an “of”….
P 3, L 5: Actually Gondwanaland is redundant as Gondwana means “ Land of….”
P 3, L 10: “2-5°” I presume.
P 4, L 56: define P, obvious, but is necessary.
P 5, L 17: comma after “magma”
P 7, L 17: Basement Sill
P 9, L34: delete “is”
P 11, L 11: Beardmore not Beardsmore.
P 11, Ls 50-51: Sense?
P 12, L 48: earth = Earth.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Katharine Cashman)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161083)
09-Feb-2017
Dear Professor Petford,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Image based modelling of lateral magma flow: the Basement
Sill, Antarctica") have now received rather divergent comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
The main issue lies in the description of the geological background to the Basement Sill
(specifically the motivation for the study) and the choice of parameters employed in the
modelling, notably viscosity of the melt phase (not the mixture). The decision to neglect cooling is
reasonable, but this makes it all the more important that the correct melt viscosity is chosen. If
eddies only occur at the low end of the viscosity range chosen and if, as a reviewer suggests, this
low end is not realistic, then the findings of your work would require some modification. Perhaps
the formation of eddies is even more "transient" than suggested. Perhaps a simple thermal model,
allied to realistic melt viscosities, could be used to place a timescale on this transience. It is
essential that you address all of these, and other, points raised by the reviewer.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 04-Mar-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers. Re-evaluation by one of the
original reviewers is likely in your case.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
4
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161083
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
5
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Your manuscript has been given two reviews. Both recognize the significance of your approach,
but the second reviewer raises numerous significant issues that need to be addressed. I encourage
the authors to carefully consider the detailed comments of reviewer 2 and resubmit their work.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Remarks by Bruce Marsh on the manuscript:
Image based modelling of lateral magma flow:
The Basement Sill, Antarctica
by
Nick Petford and Seyed Mirhadizadeh
General: In short, this is a refreshing, innovative, and very interesting piece of work. It is well
written, concise, engaging, and thought provoking. It is novel in that it presents a straightforward
model of processes that seem obvious in the field, but are often difficult to quantify given the
unusual geometries and the unusual rheology of magmatic slurries. Moreover, even though it
does not include temperature and chemical effects, once the overall flow behavior has been
elucidated, these effects can be added in to further verify the present results. The 3-D effects,
although necessarily speculative – given that full 3-D field exposures are virtually unknown –
they are truly insightful and of practical importance as unusual field relations, hitherto confusing,
may be the result of such effects. Overall, having performed broadly similar (unpublished)
numerical studies myself, and having spent 20 years studying the Basement Sill, this has been a
joy to read.
I applaud the persistence of the authors in performing this work. It must, of course, be
published with only very minor changes.
Specifics:
P 2, L18: earth to Earth, proper noun for planets. And same line, missing an “of”….
6
P 3, L 5: Actually Gondwanaland is redundant as Gondwana means “ Land of….”
P 3, L 10: “2-5°” I presume.
P 4, L 56: define P, obvious, but is necessary.
P 5, L 17: comma after “magma”
P 7, L 17: Basement Sill
P 9, L34: delete “is”
P 11, L 11: Beardmore not Beardsmore.
P 11, Ls 50-51: Sense?
P 12, L 48: earth = Earth.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161083)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161083.R1)
24-Apr-2017
Dear Professor petford:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-161083.R1
entitled "Image based modelling of lateral magma flow: the Basement Sill, Antarctica" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
7
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161083.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 03-May-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
8
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Dear Professor Petford
Thank you for your resubmission. I think you have done a very good job of incorporating the
reviewers's comments and do not see the need to send the manuscript out for re-review.
I do still relatively minor points that need attention.
I have some concerns about whether there is sufficient acknowledgement of sources for some of
your figures. Checking on the google earth website, it seems that to use the image in figure 2 you
need to give all of the following information:
Geographic coordinates
Eye altitude
Data set (if applicable)
Image source(s) and copyright(s)
Website URL
Date accessed
9
Fig. 3 seems to be from work published in EOS. To use this figure in RSOS will require the
permission of AGU.
If any of the other figures, for instance figure 4, are taken from other publications, please obtain
permission to use these figures.
I notice that in the acknowledgements you mention Jon Davidson who was a 'participant in the
expedition'. It is not clear what this expedition was, and you may like to clarify.
Simon Wallis
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161083.R1)
Figures now fully referenced with attributes and permissions. Jon Davidson's role in expedition
now defined.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161083.R2)
03-May-2017
Dear Professor petford,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Image based modelling of lateral
magma flow: the Basement Sill, Antarctica" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Review of Petford and Mirhadizadeh
This paper presents a numerical model for magma flow in the Basement Sill of the
Ferrar Group, Antarctica. This sill is interesting because it has been used as a type
example of a vertically extensive magma “mush” column (Marsh 2004; Bedard et al.
2007); it also represents part of an extensive granite- and sandstone-hosted sill
network that may have fed the Kirkpatrick flood basalts (Muirhead et al., 2014). On a
smaller scale, the Basement Sill is known for a lens of orthopyroxene that was
apparently intruded as a slurry that spread as a gravity current and, where it
ponded, formed the Dias layered intrusion. The main finding of the paper is that at
low melt viscosities, irregularities in the lower boundary create eddies that may trap
crystals. I am afraid, however, that I cannot recommend publication of this
manuscript as it stands. First and foremost, the primary focus of the paper – flow
eddies and their potential influence on crystal distributions – are relevant only for
melt viscosities that are substantially lower than anticipated for Basement Sill melts.
More general, the goal of the research is not clearly set up in the Introduction (which
implies that the focus will be on shear-thinning slurries, although it was not clear
that this was actually ever addressed). Second, and related, is the absence of
contextual information about the outcrop chosen for study and the crystal
distribution patterns that were being explored/simulated. Third is the unrealistic
parameter range investigated and the lack of clarity about the range of parameters
used in individual simulations (this may be included in the Supporting Material; I
couldn’t find it to download). And finally, the clarity of the writing could be improved
in places, as could the clarity of the figures. I expand on all of these points below.
The specific simulation described is this paper focuses on a single 200m long section
of the Basement Sill where the underlying basement is irregular in form; it is this
irregularity and its effect on flow and crystal accumulations that is the main point of
the simulations. This relates to my first point above: nowhere in the Background
section is the local geology described: do you see, in the field, crystal concentrations
associated with these basement steps that are unexplained? The only information
associated with the specific outcrop states only that there is a chilled margin at the
base and layering in the more crystal-rich central part of the sill. This leads to the
question of what specific observations motivated the work presented? And how
does the layering fit in?
The question above leads to my second point, which is that I had to find and read
the available literature on the Basement Sill to try to discover, for myself, the
context for this work. Thus my first recommendation for improving the paper is that
the authors need a clear Background section providing the details that motivate the
study, as well as relevant information about the physical properties of the modelled
intrusion (melt composition, crystal volume fraction, etc). Which leads to my third
point. I was quite puzzled about the physical parameters used in the model. From
what I can find, the Basement Sill melt was a fairly evolved melt (6.4-7 % MgO;
Marsh 2004; Bedard et al. 2007). There is absolutely no way that a melt of this
composition will have a viscosity of 1 Pa s at 1200°C, let alone a viscosity of only 10
Pa s at 700°C! Hawaiian basalts with MgO ~ 10% might have a viscosity of 10 Pa s at
1200°C; the viscosity of more evolved melts will likely be at least 100 Pa s if not
more. The melt viscosity is important, as the simulations show that eddies do not
form in more viscous magmas. The problem gets worse because at 700°C you are
well past the glass transition temperature, thus viscosity is not a relevant concept.
Moreover, the implication of the Introduction is that the flow being modelled is a
crystal-rich suspension (slurry), which would have a substantially higher viscosity and
may not even behave as a Newtonian fluid. In fact, the model covers from 0-72%
crystals, apparently, although the suspension should lock up at 50-60% crystals, and
no parameterization is provided for the effect of crystals on the rheology.
I was also puzzled about the particle density range of 2000 to 5000 kg/m3… a quick
look suggests that orthopyroxene densities range from approximately 3000-4000,
with the higher value the pure Fe end member. Similarly, plagioclase densities are
approx. 2600-2800 kg/m3. I am not trying to be nit-picky here, and am fine with
exploration of parameter space but I find it misleading if the parameter space
investigated is not properly discussed with reference to the expected parameter
range in the real world example that is used to set up the problem.
Finally, there is no thermal model included, despite the strong cooling that would be
expected at the flow margins. The authors acknowledge this deficiency, but do not
provide sufficient motivation for the fluid modelling to make up for the absence of
temperature. In fact, temperature and fluid flow are linked, particularly in a 3D
model, because thermal gradients can drive internal flow via the Rayleigh number
(e.g., Griffiths et al., 2003).
My suggestions for improving the manuscript can be summarized as follows:
(1) Provide much clearer motivation for the specific numerical simulations
(2) Provide sufficient background information to support the types of simulations
run and the parameters used (including inferred melt composition, range of opx
concentrations in the slurry, etc).
(3) Be much more explicit about (and provide support for) the physical parameters
used (including a parameterization for the effects of changing crystallinity on the
bulk rheology of the material).
(4) Provide a Table showing the simulations done (what parameters are varied?)
(5) Improve the writing – there are several long and convoluted sentences that make
the paper difficult to read. An example can be found in the abstract: “Image-based
numerical modelling where the intrusion geometry in the field defines its own
unique finite element mesh allows 2 and 3D simulations of the flow regime to be
made”. Why not: We simulated the flow regime in 2 and 3D using numerical models
built on a finite element mesh derived from field measurements.
(6) The Figures could be much clearer if the axes had larger fonts and were all
properly labelled on the figure (not just in the caption) and if the color scales were
clearly explained. Also, I personally find the 3D figures (15) difficult to interpret –
maybe show 2D cross sections in different direction. Also, since the third dimension
is arbitrary, it might be helpful to run simulations with a few different widths, to
assess the sensitivity of the particle trajectories to the choice of the 3rd dimension.
Kathy Cashman, University of Bristol
Appendix B
Response to Referees Comments
We would like to thank the referees for the opportunity to improve aspects of this
paper. We note that reviewer 1 has no expressed concerns regarding the geological
description, motivation for the study or parameters used. The minor specifics have
been addressed in the revised version of the manuscript.
Reviewer 2 has concerns relating to the geological background of the Basement Sill and
in particular choice of melt viscosity used in the model run where eddies are best
developed. This is of course a fundamental point and we agree further exploration is
needed to justify the presence flow eddies at low melt viscosities. Before we address
this in more detail we would like to be clear about the limits of the model.
1. It cannot predict crystal distributions or layering as seen in the field.
2. It does not 'know' the modelled fluid is a suspension, with all the complexity that
implies. We chose to increase the magma viscosity by a factor of 10 arbitrarily from 1 to
104 as this we feel captures the likely range in real magmatic viscosity for this kind of
intrusion. The link to suspension rheology is made retrospectively by equating the
viscosity increase to a particle fraction using standard analytical methods [e.g. 1].
3. It does however provide numerical values of flow velocities and shear strain rates
that can be compared to experimental results on sheared magmatic suspensions [2].
A significant concern expressed by Referee 2 was the choice of melt viscosity used to
model eddy flow. We stress our intention was never to pin down the eddy effect to a
single value of melt viscosity, although we have attempted this in the revised version.
Rather we wanted to highlight it as an unexpected novelty arising from the model that
might, for some part of the emplacement history, contribute to mixing and segregation
of crystals in ways not described previously in the literature on mafic intrusions .
We have reviewed and revised our estimates of the melt viscosity of the Basement Sill
(see Section 3.1.). We note our revised value of c. 33 Pa s is greater than the published
value of 10 Pa s used by [1] to model crystal settling in the Opx tongue. This revised
viscosity has been used to modify all other references to flow rates and emplacement
times discussed in the text.
We have revised the text accordingly to reflect our view that the critical Reynolds
number and not viscosity alone should be the best indicator of potential eddy formation
during flow over undulations. We show that where the Sill is thickest (c. 300 m in the
field), Re ~ 2000 for a maximum melt viscosity of c. 50 Pa s, implying the potential for
eddy formation extends beyond the model case of 1 Pa s, which is kept as a benchmark
for reference. A new figure (16) incorporating this is referred to in the revised
Discussion section (5.1).
Referee 2 asked for more geological detail within the context of the model outputs. We
have revised the document to link the model where possible directly to field geology. A
section on Basement Sill geology has been expanded (section 2.2). In the Discussion
section on layering we make clear that the shear-thinning effect described in the
introduction is linked explicitly to observations in the Lower Zone (LZ) websterites
(section 5.3 and new field image figure 17). Again while stressing the model cannot
predict layering, by recourse to the recovered shear strain rate we can make direct
comparisons with experimental work on sheared suspensions, both theoretical and
from the geological literature, to explain the observed layering. We respectfully take
variance with the idea that magmas with solids contents > 50% inevitably "lock up"
during deformation (see [2] Fig 2).
We were asked to provide parameterisation of the variables used in the model to
include explicit reference to the mineralogy of the Sill and reference the model particle
densities (notably plagioclase and orthopyroxene). These are summarised in Table 1.
More detail on the model parameter range, initial and boundary conditions and output
files are included as Supplementary Materials.
As requested, we have included a section on motivation as part of the introduction that
makes clear the model is not trying to recreate all of the observed complexity seen in
the intrusion. Rather, we use the simulations as potential explanations for some types of
crystal accumulations in the Sill boundaries and the formation of feldspathic layers in
the interior. The eddy result is to us interesting but the primary aim was to show how
digital imaging of real outcrops can be used to build numerical models and run flow
simulations in a way not (to our knowledge) reported before in the literature for
magmatic intrusions. Hence the title of the paper. We hope this is now clearer in the
revised version.
Both reviewers comment on the fact this is a mechanical model with no explicit
reference to thermal or chemical effects. We have added a brief section on thermal
(conductive cooling) to place a simple end-member timescale on eddy formation during
cooling (section 5.2). However, we remain sceptical that conductive cooling estimates
for a static magma body will provide realistic timescales as during flow heat is
transferred with the fluid. We note in passing that the software used here is capable of
integrating thermal effects but only after the mechanical part is fully resolved. We
regard this study as a work in progress and plan to extend our analysis to include a
numerical investigation of heat transfer processes for moving fluids (including
advective heat transfer). We have nonetheless added a revised section on timescales for
conductive cooling of the Sill in the Supplementary Materials section.
We note some concerns may have been allayed if the reviewer had been able to access
the supplementary files which contain a wealth of information on flow models and
numerical simulations behind this study as a function of viscosity, grain size and
variation in Sill width (3D simulations). This includes reference to cell Re numbers
(Note: cell Re numbers where the characteristic lengthscale is based on the Finite
Element cell mesh differ from analytical solutions used in the text where dimensions are
based on the actual intrusion geometry).
Finally, full access to the Comsol code
https://www.comsol.com/community/exchange/491/allows researchers and students
to explore the models themselves using their own preferred choice of initial conditions,
providing a level of independent transparency and testability consistent with the aims
of an Open Access journal.
References
[1]. Bedard J, Marsh BD, Hershum TG, Naslund HR, Musaka, SB. 2007. Large scale
mechanical redistribution of orthopyroxene and plagioclase in the Basement Sill, Ferrar
Dolerites, Antarctica. J. Petrology, 48, 2289-2326.
[2]. Caricchi L, Burlini, LK, Ulmer, P, Gerya, T, Vassalli, M, Papale, P. 2007. Non-
Newtonian rheology of crystal-bearing magmas and implications for magma ascent
dynamics. Earth Planet. Sci. Letts, 264, 402-419. Doi:10.1016/j.epsl.2007.09.032
Society Open
