Aggressive behaviours, food deprivation and the foraging
gene
Silu Wang and Marla B. Sokolowski
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170042.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170042
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 January 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 March 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 March 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170042.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Allen Moore)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very interesting study and I found it compelling. It is one of those "of course, what a
great idea to look at this!" This is a straightforward demonstration of genetic influences on
aggression, with the added benefit of demonstrating pleiotropy, and with plausible proximate
(mechanistic) and ultimate (evolutionary) explanations.
The basic question is both interesting and simple: is allelic variation associated with variation in
larval foraging strategy also associated with adult aggression? Given the lines maintained by
Sokolowski, this can be addressed in a straightforward way. There are several reasons why this
may be true which the authors cover in the introduction. One possibility (almost the null) is that
all mutations are pleiotropic and therefore you expect universal pleiotropy. The other is that
pleiotropic effects are modular and predictable.
I think one prediction tested, discussed in part in the discussion but not really raised in the intro,
is that feeding and fighting strategies may well be expected to be co-adapted or modular. I
thought that you might expect rover dads to be more aggressive to create less dense patches for
their offspring. The reason this is interesting is that it cuts across life-history stages (larval and
adult) and generations (parents affecting offspring environment).
I think food deprivation may make more sense in discussion of how it increases the value of the
food patch they defend. This assumes that they are there to feed. However, if they are there to
influence larval environment (density) then making them hungry won't make them more
aggressive as it doesn't change the value (for the larva). So in my mind, this tested the function of
"for" in adult aggression - aggression for personal food or aggression for larval resource. It gets at
the modularity.
Finally, I am confused over the use of discriminant function analysis. I think you wanted
principle components analysis, which would create a linear combination of variables allowing
you to examine this multicomponent trait. DFA separates groups, PCA provides a new variable.
They are closely related (in fact, I couldn't tell but you may have done PCA and called it the
wrong thing) so I don't think anything would change. If you do PCA, your should report
loadings and eigenvalues for the variables and the PCs. You shouldn't really interpret PCs with
eigenvalues less than 1, but I bet PC1 is all positive (showing overall levels of agression) and PC2
is likely to be a mix with different behavior having opposite sign loadings, showing trade-offs in
behavior (or "aggressive strategy").
Minor comments:
line 41-42: In abstract (and throughout the manuscript) I think it is important to label foraging
(feeding) strategy as "larval" and aggression as "adult" behaviour. It is interesting to document
pleiotropic effects across insect life history stages in any case. Also (e.g.) line 79 and line 83 -
which of these are larval traits and which are adult?
Line 57: I think universal pleiotropy, which really is Wright's idea and not Fisher's, is that all
genes are pleiotropic not that all genes affect all traits.
Line 245 redundant with line 244.
Line 295 "was predicted to" rather than "might have"?
I think this is a really interesting paper. Well done.
Allen Moore
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Robin Cooper)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a very nice manuscript and study. A pleasure to read.
I tried the link posted.
Wang, S. & Sokolowski, M. B. 2017 Aggressive behaviours, food-deprivation and
536 the foraging gene [Data set]. (doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.41pr0)
But could not access data. Maybe this is because the paper is not published yet.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170042)
09-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Sokolowski
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170042 entitled
"Aggressive behaviours, food-deprivation and the foraging gene" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170042
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Mar-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
5
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is a very interesting study and I found it compelling. It is one of those "of course, what a
great idea to look at this!" This is a straightforward demonstration of genetic influences on
aggression, with the added benefit of demonstrating pleiotropy, and with plausible proximate
(mechanistic) and ultimate (evolutionary) explanations.
6
The basic question is both interesting and simple: is allelic variation associated with variation in
larval foraging strategy also associated with adult aggression? Given the lines maintained by
Sokolowski, this can be addressed in a straightforward way. There are several reasons why this
may be true which the authors cover in the introduction. One possibility (almost the null) is that
all mutations are pleiotropic and therefore you expect universal pleiotropy. The other is that
pleiotropic effects are modular and predictable.
I think one prediction tested, discussed in part in the discussion but not really raised in the intro,
is that feeding and fighting strategies may well be expected to be co-adapted or modular. I
thought that you might expect rover dads to be more aggressive to create less dense patches for
their offspring. The reason this is interesting is that it cuts across life-history stages (larval and
adult) and generations (parents affecting offspring environment).
I think food deprivation may make more sense in discussion of how it increases the value of the
food patch they defend. This assumes that they are there to feed. However, if they are there to
influence larval environment (density) then making them hungry won't make them more
aggressive as it doesn't change the value (for the larva). So in my mind, this tested the function of
"for" in adult aggression - aggression for personal food or aggression for larval resource. It gets at
the modularity.
Finally, I am confused over the use of discriminant function analysis. I think you wanted
principle components analysis, which would create a linear combination of variables allowing
you to examine this multicomponent trait. DFA separates groups, PCA provides a new variable.
They are closely related (in fact, I couldn't tell but you may have done PCA and called it the
wrong thing) so I don't think anything would change. If you do PCA, your should report
loadings and eigenvalues for the variables and the PCs. You shouldn't really interpret PCs with
eigenvalues less than 1, but I bet PC1 is all positive (showing overall levels of agression) and PC2
is likely to be a mix with different behavior having opposite sign loadings, showing trade-offs in
behavior (or "aggressive strategy").
Minor comments:
line 41-42: In abstract (and throughout the manuscript) I think it is important to label foraging
(feeding) strategy as "larval" and aggression as "adult" behaviour. It is interesting to document
pleiotropic effects across insect life history stages in any case. Also (e.g.) line 79 and line 83 -
which of these are larval traits and which are adult?
Line 57: I think universal pleiotropy, which really is Wright's idea and not Fisher's, is that all
genes are pleiotropic not that all genes affect all traits.
Line 245 redundant with line 244.
Line 295 "was predicted to" rather than "might have"?
I think this is a really interesting paper. Well done.
Allen Moore
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This is a very nice manuscript and study. A pleasure to read.
I tried the link posted.
Wang, S. & Sokolowski, M. B. 2017 Aggressive behaviours, food-deprivation and
7
536 the foraging gene [Data set]. (doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.41pr0)
But could not access data. Maybe this is because the paper is not published yet.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170042)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170042.R1)
22-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Sokolowski,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Aggressive behaviours, food-
deprivation and the foraging gene" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
“This is a very interesting study and I found it compelling. It is one of those "of
course, what a great idea to look at this!" This is a straightforward demonstration
of genetic influences on aggression, with the added benefit of demonstrating
pleiotropy, and with plausible proximate (mechanistic) and ultimate (evolutionary)
explanations. The basic question is both interesting and simple: is allelic variation
associated with variation in larval foraging strategy also associated with adult
aggression? Given the lines maintained by Sokolowski, this can be addressed in a
straightforward way. There are several reasons why this may be true which the
authors cover in the introduction. One possibility (almost the null) is that all
mutations are pleiotropic and therefore you expect universal pleiotropy. The other
is that pleiotropic effects are modular and predictable.
Comment:
I think one prediction tested, discussed in part in the discussion but not
really raised in the intro, is that feeding and fighting strategies may well be expected
to be co-adapted or modular. I thought that you might expect rover dads to be more
aggressive to create less dense patches for their offspring. The reason this is
interesting is that it cuts across life-history stages (larval and adult) and generations
(parents affecting offspring environment). I think food deprivation may make more
sense in discussion of how it increases the value of the food patch they defend. This
assumes that they are there to feed. However, if they are there to influence larval
environment (density) then making them hungry won't make them more aggressive
as it doesn't change the value (for the larva). So in my mind, this tested the function
of "for" in adult aggression - aggression for personal food or aggression for larval
resource. It gets at the modularity.”
Response:
This is an interesting idea. We did not explicitly test the offspring larval
density/environment in this study, so we could not make the argument about the value of
aggressive behavior from the perspective of larval benefit. However, we do agree that
your idea contributes to our postulation about the coadaptation between feeding and
fighting strategies, which would be meaningful for future investigation.
Hence we made modifications in line 363-370: “Rover-‘offensive’ and sitter-
‘defensive’ aggressive strategies could potentially be maintained by negative frequency
dependent selection. When sitters are rare, the rover aggressive strategy is costly due to
harmful fights with abundant rovers opponents. However, when rovers are rare, adult
aggressive strategy can be beneficial, since it will dominate foraging and mating
opportunities among ‘defensive’ sitters. Such aggressive rover parents could guard
spacious larval food patches that favor rover larvae that tend to move around when
foraging. This negative frequency-dependent coadaptation of feeding and fighting
strategies might occur across life history stages and generations.”
Also, in line 373-375, we included the following: “Future study should test this
idea by tracking fitness, aggression, and foraging path length across life-history stages in
populations with varying rover-to-sitter frequencies.”
Comment:
“Finally, I am confused over the use of discriminant function analysis. I think you
wanted principle components analysis, which would create a linear combination of
variables allowing you to examine this multicomponent trait. DFA separates groups,
PCA provides a new variable. They are closely related (in fact, I couldn't tell but
you may have done PCA and called it the wrong thing) so I don't think anything
would change. If you do PCA, your should report loadings and eigenvalues for the
variables and the PCs. You shouldn't really interpret PCs with eigenvalues less than
1, but I bet PC1 is all positive (showing overall levels of agression) and PC2 is likely
to be a mix with different behavior having opposite sign loadings, showing trade-offs
in behavior (or "aggressive strategy").”
Response:
Thanks for pointing this out. In fact, we employed DFA instead of PCA. DFA is
similar to PCA (as you mentioned): it finds a linear combination of predictors to examine
this multiple component trait. However DFA searches for the linear combination of
variables such that it minimizes the within-group variance and maximizes the between-
group distance. Our goal was to reduce dimensionality among behavior variables in order
to get a collective representation of offensive behavior with the knowledge of the a priori
treatment groups. We thus found linear discriminant axis that pulls out between-treatment
variation in offensive behavior to test treatment effect with ANOVA. Your comments
made us realize that this method might result in false positives due to inflation of
between-group variance.
Therefore we changed the method and conducted PCA instead. As expected, this
change increased p-values, although it did not change the main conclusion of the study:
there is significant strain effect on the PC axes that effectively represent the variations in
offensive or defensive behavior. There is no food-deprivation effect on offensive
behaviors as a whole, although food-deprivation reduced intermediate aggressive
behaviors.
We made the corresponding change in the method (from line 202 on), result (from
line 220 on), and discussion (line 275, 298-302, 315, 320-322), as well as Figure 3. We
included eigenvalue and loading report in Table S1. Thank you again for your suggestion.
Minor comments:
“line 41-42: In abstract (and throughout the manuscript) I think it is important to
label foraging (feeding) strategy as "larval" and aggression as "adult" behaviour. It
is interesting to document pleiotropic effects across insect life history stages in any
case.”
Added
“Also (e.g.) line 79 and line 83 - which of these are larval traits and which are
adult?”
Response:
In line 82, we added “larval” and “adult” and summarized the distinctive
phenotypes in adults, so that it reads as, “(reviewed in [14]), such as larval foraging path
length, adult behavioural and physiological responses to food-deprivation [15], learning
and memory, sleeping patterns, stress responses [16].”
“Line 57: I think universal pleiotropy, which really is Wright's idea and
not Fisher's, is that all genes are pleiotropic not that all genes affect
all traits.”
Response:
We double checked this and found that Fisher’s Geometric model (Fisher 1930)
described ‘universal pleiotropy’ as one locus mutation affecting all traits, which
explained how the fitness effect of a mutation vary as phenotypes become more
independent. Sewall Wright (1968) provided more evidence and expanded the idea.
Fisher, Ronald (1930). The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection. Oxford, UK: Oxford
University Press.
Wright, Sewall (1968). Evolution and the Genetics of Population. Chicago, USA:
Chicago University Press.
“Line 245 redundant with line 244.”
Response: Thank you, we have deleted ".Food-deprivation did not elevate aggressive
behaviours”.
“Line 295 "was predicted to" rather than "might have"?”
Response: Changed.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
“This is a very nice manuscript and study. A pleasure to read.”
“I tried the link posted.
Wang, S. & Sokolowski, M. B. 2017 Aggressive behaviours, food-deprivation
And 536 the foraging gene [Data set].
(doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.41pr0)
But could not access data. Maybe this is because the paper is not published yet.”
Yes, we have uploaded the raw data to dryad under Royal Society Open Science.
Society Open
