A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on
vascular magnetic nanoconstructs
Mahdi Nabil and Paolo Zunino
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160287.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160287
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 April 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 11 July 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 16 August 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 17 August 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160287.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is no supplementary material
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The comments are listed in the attached PDF. See Appendix A.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, and there is no supplementary material
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper is a potential breakthrough, and I appreciate the authors' effort. However, they will see
that several points need a thorough clarification. This is the reason why I recommend a major
revision. You find my comments in the attached pdf file. My opinion is nonetheless positive. See
Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160287)
17-Jun-2016
Dear Professor Zunino,
The editors assigned to your paper ("A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on
vascular magnetic nanoconstructs") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
3
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 10-Jul-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160287
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
4
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Subject Editor's comments:
The authors should revise the paper in line with the comments of the two reviewers and detail
the changes made in a covering letter.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The comments are listed in the attached PDF.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper is a potential breakthrough, and I appreciate the authors' effort. However, they will see
that several points need a thorough clarification. This is the reason why I recommend a major
revision. You find my comments in the attached pdf file. My opinion is nonetheless positive.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160287)
See Appendix C.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-160287.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes. There is no supplementary material.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have revised the manuscript thoroughly and appropriately and I can now
recommend it for publication, provided that the few remaining points that I raised in the attached
PDF are carefully taken into account. See Appendix D.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160287.R1)
11-Aug-2016
Dear Professor Zunino:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160287.R1
entitled "A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on vascular magnetic
nanoconstructs" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
6
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160287.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 20-Aug-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
7
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Mark Chaplain
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have revised the manuscript thoroughly and appropriately and I can now
recommend it for publication, provided that the few remaining points that I raised in the attached
PDF are carefully taken into account.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160287.R1)
See Appendix E.
Appendix A
Manuscript RSOS-160287 by M. Nabil and P.
Zunino
A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on vascular
magnetic nanoconstructs
Besides cardiovascular diseases, cancer is one of the most frequent causes of
death in western societies. Therefore there is a great interest in therapy options
for cancer diseases in western societies. One wide-spread approach to combat
cancer is hyperthermia. Thereby, the cancer tissue is subjected to a high tem-
perature such that the cancer cells are killed.
The submitted work by M. Nabil and P. Zunino presents a numerical model
for a cancer hyperthermia using injections of nanoparticles. By means of this
model two different therapy options are investigated. The numerical simulations
in this paper show that a stimulation of VMNs (Vascular Magnetic Nanocon-
structs) yield an almost uniform temperature distribution within the cancer
tissue. If IONPs (Iron oxide nanoparticles) are injected into the capillary net-
work supplying the cancer tissue the authors observe a temperature gradient in
the cancer tissue. In order to reduce cancer tissue efficiently, it is desirable to
generate an uniform temperature distribution. Otherwise the cancer cells can
not be removed in a proper way. Thus the simulations suggest that the usage
of VMNs is preferable in context of hyperthermia. This result is interesting and
might help to improve hyperthermia methods. In addition to that it is examined
how much circulation time is required to create a certain concentration within
the cancer tissue (see Table 2). This knowledge is crucial to determine when it
is meaningful to switch on an alternating magnetic field heating up the injected
nanoparticles.
A further interesting feature of this work is that the capillary network embed-
ded in tumor tissue can be resolved quite accurately at low computational costs.
This is achieved by using one-dimensional (1D) models for flow and transport.
These models are defined on a graph-like structure describing the topology of
the capillary network. The flow and transport problems within the three dimen-
sional (3D) tumor tissue and the 1D capillary network are coupled by the source
terms of the corresponding equations. In particular, the exchange processes be-
tween the 1D network and the 3D tissue volume are described by Dirac source
terms, where the Dirac measures are concentrated on the graph-like structure
parameterizing the main axes of the capillary network. Compared to lumped
parameter models, this multi-scale approach has the advantage of yielding more
accurate results and compared to full 3D models computational time is saved.
However, a certain drawback of this approach is the fact that the line source
terms cause singularities in the 3D solutions, which requires a sufficient fine
grid or an adaptive grid for the numerical discretization. In this paper 272872
tetrahedral elements are used to discretize the 3D tissue domain. The authors
claim that such a mesh is sufficient to have an acceptable precision.
The text is well written and structured, thus it is convenient for the reader
to follow the ideas of the authors. All in all I can recommend this paper
for publication after the following minor remarks are addressed:
1. There are some typos which might arise from an incorrect representation
of special characters (page 4, line 13, line 17), (page 6, line 27), (page 14,
line 44).
2. Further typos: page 7, line 44: ... in average larger
3. Abstract last sentence: Write: ... current study might in future guide,...
4. page 3, line 9: Write: ... for a sufficient long time.
5. page 3, line 26/27: Write: ... of handling scenarios with different environ-
ments and ...
6. page 3, line 53/54: Write: ... theory of porous media. The following
references give an overview on this topic: [34,36,41].
7. page 4, line 33-36: According to reference [51], each segment of the capil-
lary network has a certain diameter varying from 4.7 µm to 14.0 µm. Is
the value R = 7.64 µm an average value? The authors should explain it
more detailed.
8. page 4, line 42: Write: ... the virtual tumor model ...
9. page 4, line 56: I would replace ”viscous fluid” by ”Newtonian fluid”.
10. Section 2a) Assumptions: I would add to the assumptions concerning the
flow equations that body forces and gravity are neglected.
11. page 6, equation (2.1a) and (2.1d): In references [7] and [8], the authors
use an averaged pressure pt such that the 3D pressure in the tissue pt
and the 1D pressure in the capillaries pv can be compared. However,
in equation (2.1d) there is only pt and not pt . Furthermore the authors
should explain more detailed how the oncotic pressure jump sp · (pvp - ptp )
is computed.
12. page 7, line 46: Write: ... they circulate usually for several hours in ...
13. Section 2b) Assumptions: I would add to the assumptions concerning
the mass transport model that the nanoparticles do not alter the fluid
properties (here: blood).
14. page 8, line 38: The authors should explain, why they consider a fixed
value for the wall shear stress: 50 s-1 . In [1, Section 2.1] the wall shear
stress rate is computed by the radial derivative of the velocity field, eval-
uated at the vessel wall:
<U+2202>u
W SR = ,
<U+2202>r r=R
where R is the averaged radius of the vessel. Assuming a parabolic profile
in radial direction:
  r 2 
u(r) = 2 · uv · 1 - ,
R
we have:
<U+2202>u uv
= -4 · .
<U+2202>r r=R R
This implies that the wall shear rate can be computed by the solution
variables of the flow equations and the corresponding parameters.
15. In equation (2.5a) and (2.5c), the source term fT exhibits the arguments
ct and cv . However, fT does not depend on ct , but only on <U+03A8> (cv ) and cv .
I would remove ct from the arguments such that fT depends only on cv .
16. Figure 2b): The authors should add to every subfigure a color bar for <U+03A8>
and scale it to the corresponding range for <U+03A8>, such that the growth of <U+03A8>
can be seen in a better way. In addition to that the quality of the figure
should be improved. In the submitted PDF this figure seems to be a little
bit blurred.
17. page 11, line 30: Write: ... the tumor slab is exposed to an AMF only for
20 min.
18. page 12, line 40 and 41: The authors claim that the maximum tempera-
tures in the tumor slab are 11.34<U+25E6> C or 12.03<U+25E6> C after heating the tumor.
These values are much too low. On page 3 (line 9) it is said that the tumor
should be subjected to a temperature of 50<U+25E6> C such that the cancer cells
are killed.
References
[1] JP Mynard and P Nithiarasu. A 1d arterial blood flow model incorporating
ventricular pressure, aortic valve and regional coronary flow using the locally
conservative galerkin (lcg) method. Communications in Numerical Methods
in Engineering, 24(5):367–417, 2008.
Reviewer’s report on the manuscript:
A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on vascular magnetic
nanoconstructs,
by Nabil, Mahdi; Zunino, Paolo; submitted to the Royal Society Open Science.
This manuscript presents an interesting and innovative numerical modeling ap-
proach (embedded multiscale method), applied to hyperthermia in cancer treat-
ment. The model is capable to account for several physical phenomena, as it
comprises (iron oxide) particles transport in the vessels (delivered via nanocon-
structs) and fluid transport in both the tissue and the vessels microvasculature
(considered as a one-dimensional network), as well as the heat exchange phe-
nomena, as appropriate. The latter are driven by a source term that includes
the main feature of the hyperthermia treatment, i.e. irradiation of (iron oxide)
nanoparticles as a consequence of the exposition of the nanoconstructs carrying
them to an alternate, low-frequency magnetic field. This paper shows how the
interplay of the above mentioned, complex phenomena, can be considered via a
multiscale, computationally feasible approach and provide novel hints towards
the improvement of hyperthermia applied to cancer treatment via a transfor-
mative methodology. The paper is genuinely novel and sufficiently well-written
and the results are presented quite clearly. However, the manuscript is not en-
tirely proof-reading in its present form, and there also several points that are
to be thoroughly clarified. I can certainly recommend publication for this work,
provided that the authors are willing to take into careful consideration the sug-
gested remarks, which are reported section-wise below.
Abstract
The abstract is well-written and quite proof-reading, and I therefore recommend
minor changes only on this part, namely:
• Keywords: I would recommend to devote at least one keyword to the
multiscale method used.
• It is not clear what the authors mean by state-of-the-art in this context.
I believe their technique is quite advanced, and this could be pointed
out. I would recommend to refer to the technique (embedded multiscale
method) explicitly. In case the authors mean that the actual computations
are performed using standard solvers, that is fine, but it is not necessarily
worth pointing this out in the abstract.
• The authors state that: “...a unique capability of incorporating realistic
microvasculature geometries...”. This sentence is highly questionable, as
a one dimensional network made of straight lines certainly cannot be con-
sidered realistic. However, it is true that the network map is constructed
on the basis of physiological data, and the technique is certainly capable
to account for physical phenomena taking place at the microvasculature
level at a reduced computational cost. I would avoid using the term re-
alistic (everywhere, not only in the abstract), replacing it with something
like ”microvasculature based on physiological data” and also put more
emphasis on the reason why such a 1-D network map is used, i.e. indeed
to reduce the computational cost and, at the same time, account for the
tissue-vessels interplay.
Introduction
The introduction is well-written and the motivation for undertaking such a study
is clearly highlighted. The authors have performed a valuable literature review
concerning the specific scenario they aim to describe (i.e. hyperthermia for can-
cer treatment). However, it is also important to provide a slightly more general
overview concerning modeling and computational approaches in nanomedicine,
as well as alternative multiscale modeling and numerical techniques. More pre-
cisely:
• Concerning modeling and computations in nanomedicine, I would suggest
to add (at least) one paragraph, referring to appropriate and comprehen-
sive review works in the literature, such as, for example Haddish-Berhane
et al. (2007), Taffetani et al. (2014).
• Concerning multiscale modeling applied to transport of fluid and solute
through healthy and tumor microvasculature, I suggest that the authors
carefully compare (highlighting advantages and drawbacks) the embedded
multiscale method (reporting appropriate, selected references also in the
introduction) embraced in their manuscript with alternative approaches
exploiting mixture theory (Schuff et al. (2013a,b)), and asymptotic homog-
enization. In the latter case, I suggest to refer to the paradigmatic work
Shipley and Chapman (2010), and especially to its generalization Penta
et al. (2015), which compares well with the fluid and drug dynamics con-
sidered by the authors from the modeling viewpoint. In the latter work,
in fact, tissue scale diffusion, as well as a full non-equilibrium thermody-
namical approach for extravasation of fluid and solute through the vessels
(including osmosis effects) are taken into account. Finally, in Penta and
Ambrosi (2015), the authors solve the fluid transport model Shipley and
Chapman (2010) varying the (three-dimensional) microvasculature geome-
try. They show that the latter directly influences the hydraulic properties
of the vessels (which cannot be explicitly considered via the embedded
multiscale method), and that geometrical complexity can dramatically
impair transport of blood (and, in turn, advected drug) in solid tumors.
• The authors state that: “..One of the most significant features of this
study is the description of a realistic microvasculature, which is modeled
as a network of one-dimensional (1D) vessels. ...”. Once again, a one-
dimensional representation of the microvasculature cannot be considered
realstic, although it can be certinaly considered a valuable tool, which
is, in this case, also based on realistic physiological data. They continue
stating that this feature is essential to capture the interaction between
nanoconstructs and the vessels. It is of course true that it is essential to
account for the microstructure explicitly in order to model the interaction
of particles (such as adhesion) appropriately. However, the approach pre-
sented in this paper accounts for geometrical variations solely with respect
to vessels length and angles between them, rather than the hydraulic prop-
erties of the network as such. In particular, since they are assuming the
simple Poiseulle’s law (i.e. precisely the analytic results that is obtained
solving the appropriate Stokes’ problem in a cylinder), the influence of
geometrical properties of the vessels’ walls, and their implications on (a)
blood and drug extravasation and (b) wall shear stress and, in turn par-
ticle adhesion, is neglected. The authors should briefly comment on these
aspects in the introduction and more thoroughly in the modeling part, as
well as in the conclusions.
I recommend that the authors take into careful considerations the above men-
tioned remarks, referring to the suggested literature and, in addition, to any
other paper that can add further, useful hints to better highlight the state of
the art in the field.
Models and methods
This section represents the technical core of the manuscript, and I appreciate
that the authors divide it into several subsections, as this does help the reader’s
understading. However, there are several points that are to be clarified. These
are listed below.
• 2(a): Assumptions-Boundary conditions: The authors should clearly spec-
ify that, according to their (fairly reasonable) assumptions on low Reynolds
number flow in the vessels, the Stokes’ problem should be used to model
the blood flow in the vessels. Then, as a further simplification, they di-
rectly consider the “Poiseuille’s law”, i.e., rigorously, the average of the
solution of the Stokes’ problem (equipped with homogeneous Dirichlet
conditions on the lateral surface) that would be obtained considering a
constant pressure gradient across a cylinder. Although they then adapt
back that law to account for variations of the pressure versus the curvilin-
ear coordinate s, this approach is not suitable when geometrical variations
of the vessels’ walls are significant. The authors should briefly comment
on these aspects and provide possible suggestions for future improvements,
also referring to, and comparing with, the discussions reported in Penta
and Ambrosi (2015), and references therein concerning the role of chan-
nels’ tortuosity in fluid-dynamics, as I suggest in the above comments
concerning the introduction of this manuscript. Concerning the boundary
conditions, do the authors mean that they apply known (interstitial) pres-
sures pin and pout and then recover the pressure gradient in the vessels
using Poiseuille’s law, and then the pressure in the vessels itself pv ? Are
they approximating the pressure gradient with a constant value in the
vessels? (this may be reasonable, but it should be clearly stated, if that
happens to be the case). I suggest that the authors rephrase this para-
graph for the sake of clarity. The boundary conditions should be clearly
stated and any assumption reported explicitly.
• 2(a) constitutive law and parameters. The authors formally consider the
role of the oncotic pressure (i.e. the osmotic pressure mainly due to the
proteins in the plasma). However, they do not report the membrane se-
lectivity (i.e. what they call sieving coefficient s p ) and, in any case, it is
well-known that this contributions is very small compared to the mechan-
ics pressure drop in vascular tumors (to the best of my knowledge there
should be a three order of magnitude difference between the two). That
coefficient depends on both the vessels’ walls permeability and on the par-
ticles size and the authors should check the appropriate literature (see,
e.g. Jain et al. (2007)) and update their table, although I do think that
this contribution can be neglected without affecting the results. I would
also like to remark that this might not be the case for the osmotic pressure
due to large particles, such as the nanoconstructs that are considered in
this work. The authors even state that these nanoconstructs are larger
than the vessels’ membrane pore size and that they do not extravasate. It
may well be that, on the basis of this argument (reported by the authors
themselves), osmosis due to these particle play a relevant role affecting the
fluid dynamics in both compartment. The authors can refer to Penta et al.
(2015), where a discussion concerning the contribution of osmosis due to
injected particles is reported. It would be extremely interesting to see this
addition (and its consequences on the results) implemented, although I
do realize that this would change the computational work flow, as that
osmotic term would depend on the drug concentration difference across
the capillaries’ membrane, so that the system of equations for the fluid
flow would no longer be independent on particle concentration. However,
the authors should at least carefully comment on these aspects, both in
the modeling section, and in the conclusions. It is possible that such an
addition can foster future development towards an interesting extension
of their model.
• 2(b) Mass transport model. I assume the authors completely neglect the
drug dynamics in the interstitial compartment because they do not con-
sider the extravasation of the nanoconstructes (VMN) in the tumor. How-
ever, I would have expected that the VMN acted solely as a particle deliv-
ery vector, and that, afterwards, extravasation of iron oxide particles (in
principle, both of convective and diffusion type) would have taken place.
The authors should very carefully clarify this point, as it is paramount
for the sake of the reader’s understanding (and for reproducibility of the
authors’ results). Furthermore, the authors distinguish (later on in the
manuscript) two cases, i.e. iron oxide carried via VMN vs iron oxide
alone. In the latter case, as the authors indeed state (!) (at the beginning
of section 3), the dynamics take place via extravasation from the vessels
into the interstitium. It might be possible that in this latter case (the
40 minutes circulation, section 3), advection-diffusion of iron oxide, to-
gether with appropriate extravasation terms concentrated in the vessels
(as appropriate), is (or should be) considered. Should this be the case,
the authors would have to report the correct modeling equations for this
particular case. In any case, the authors should carefully clarify this point,
and certinaly precisely state (and report) the mathematical implications
of their assumptions I understand that they focus on a particular time
scale (which may of course be tuned to focus on certain physical aspects,
as they do), although they should clearly justify (reporting a brief param-
eters analysis) that extravasation of particle can be entirely negelected.
• 2 (c) Heat tranfer model. The heat sink term due to the lymphatic
drainage does not appear to be correct at all. In particular it seems
that its physical unit, and meaning, are incorrect, as it reads as a mass
source multiplied by a pressure difference, as opposite to the term related
to the microvasculature, which appears instead to be correct, and solely
proportional to the temperature difference between the tissue and the ves-
sels, which is multiplied by an appropriate thermal conductivity coefficient
ßT . The authors should certainly check the units of every term in their
equations for the heat transfer phenomena and either (a) correct the term
related to the lymphatic drainage or (b) should it be physically correct as
it reads, explain its meaning thoroughly and fix the units reporting any
coefficient that might be possibly missing.
• 2 (d) Computational solver. This subsection is presented in a clear and
proof-reading manner. I would just suggest to comment on the overall
computational cost to help the broad, non technical audience (i.e. is par-
allel computing necessary, and to what extent?)
3 Results and discussion
The results are well-presented and the authors’ finding can potentially represent
a breakthrough in the field, and, in the long run, provide a significant contribu-
tion towards the development of more effective anti-cancer therapies. However,
I would like to draw the authors’ attention to the following observations
• Once again, it is strongly necessary to refer to the correct system of partial
differential equations that is implemented in the two main cases (i.e. 40min
circulations versus the other three cases), should they be different (see also
my earlier comment on the mass transport model section).
• I think that the authors obtain a more uniform temperature distribution
for particles transported via VMN because, as the interstitial drug dy-
namics is neglected (the particles stick to the vessels’ walls and are not
advected/diffused through the tissue), the blood vessels act as a fairly
uniform (because of the topology, as the authors correctly remark) heat
source, and a uniform distribution is reached for a sufficiently large time
interval. The same argument does not apply to iron oxide which is not
transported through VMN, as in this case a much shorter time is consid-
ered (that is, I am left to assume, because after this short time window,
they could not neglect extravasation and proper tissue drug dynamics any-
more). The authors should comment the above mentioned interpretation
(both in the response and in the manuscript, as appropriate), and, in gen-
eral, comment more thoroughly the results that they have obtained. It
would be much clearer for the reader to use similar time interval for the two
cases and include the proper drug dynamics for the iron oxide transported
alone. This way, the authors would obtain most likely the same (qual-
itatively at least) results, and would observe the heterogeneities in the
temperature distribution as a consequence of particles transported from
the vessels to the tissue, which would possibly act as scattered source of
heat rather than a uniform one. It may well be that the two approaches
are equivalent, nonetheless, I would strongly suggest the authors to add
at least a discussion on these aspects and comment on the physical inter-
pretation of the results.
• What is the quantitative and qualitative role of lymphatic vessels on hy-
perthermia?
Conclusions
The authors present their conclusions in a fairly clear and proof-reading fashion.
I do agree with their concluding observations, although, as pointed out in the
above remarks, I would recommend to shed more light on the following potential
improvements
• The authors should comment on the (potentially paramount) role of os-
mosis due to nanoconstructs in the vessels.
• I do agree with the authors that future work should account for a more re-
fined microscale model for particle adhesion. In addition, it would be also
crucial to account for the geometrical tortuosity of the vessels membrane
and its implications on the wall shear stress and fluid convection. The
authors should try to depict further perspectives related to these aspects.
As a first, simple step, it may be possible that the authors could combine
recent findings in the multiscale asymptotic literature to slightly modify
the Poiseuille’s law and start to account for more complex vessels geome-
try at a fairly reasonable computational cost and still formally within the
framework of the embedded multiscale method.
• I agree with the last sentence of the paper, as the model would surely
benefit from integration with complementary and alternative multicale
methods. I would add, here, at least one paragraph, referring to the
appropriate literature (as I remarked above where I comment on the in-
troductory section) and provide example of future research directions that
can merge different multiscale techniques. I do think that combining dif-
ferent mutiscale techniques, especially for complex multiphysiscs biological
systems, could help to overcome their limitations towards a more realistic
representation of physical phenomena.
I wish to conclude this report drawing the authors’ attention to the several
typos which are present in more than one section, especially in the introduction
and modeling part (in some cases, it is possible that they forgot to write letters
with accents in the appropriate way in the latex code). Furthermore, I would
suggest that the authors report the SI counterpart for every parameter, as this
may greatly help the reader to readily reproduce the results.
References
Haddish-Berhane N, Rickus JL, Haghighi K (2007) The role of multiscale
computational approaches for rational design of conventional and nanoparticle
oral drug delivery systems. International journal of nanomedicine 2(3):315
Jain RK, Tong RT, Munn LL (2007) Effect of vascular normalization by
antiangiogenic therapy on interstitial hypertension, peritumor edema, and
lymphatic metastasis: insights from a mathematical model. Cancer Res
67(6):2729–2735
Penta R, Ambrosi D (2015) The role of the microvascular tortuosity in tumor
transport phenomena. Journal of theoretical biology 364:80–97
Penta R, Ambrosi D, Quarteroni A (2015) Multiscale homogenization for fluid
and drug transport in vascularized malignant tissues. Mathematical Models
and Methods in Applied Sciences 25(1):79–108
Schuff M, Gore J, Nauman E (2013a) A mixture theory model of fluid and solute
transport in the microvasculature of normal and malignant tissues. i. theory.
Journal of Mathematical Biology 66:1179–1207
Schuff M, Gore J, Nauman E (2013b) A mixture theory model of fluid and solute
transport in the microvasculature of normal and malignant tissues. ii. factor
sensitivity analysis, calibration, and validation. Journal of Mathematical
Biology 67:1307–1337
Shipley RJ, Chapman J (2010) Multiscale modelling of fluid and drug transport
in vascular tumors. Bulletin of Mathematical Biology 72:1464–1491
Taffetani M, de Falco C, Penta R, Ambrosi D, Ciarletta P (2014) Biomechanical
modelling in nanomedicine: multiscale approaches and future challenges.
Archive of Applied Mechanics 84(9-11):1627–1645
Reply to the reviews of the manuscript:
A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on
vascular magnetic nanoconstructs
M. Nabil, P. Zunino
July 1, 2016
First of all, we would like to thank the Reviewer for the careful reading of the manuscript and for
the valuable recommendations. We have thoroughly taken into account all of them. The corresponding
major changes in the revised manuscript are reported in red, for the sake of clarity.
Reviewer labelled as #1
(Q) There are some typos which might arise from an incorrect representation of special characters (page
4, line 13, line 17), (page 6, line 27), (page 14, line 44)
(Q) Further typos: page 7, line 44: ... in average larger
(Q) Abstract last sentence: Write: ... current study might in future guide,...
(Q) page 3, line 9: Write: ... for a sufficient long time.
(Q) page 3, line 26/27: Write: ... of handling scenarios with different environments and ...
(Q) page 3, line 53/54: Write: ... theory of porous media. The following references give an overview
on this topic: [34,36,41].
(A) All the previous corrections have been taken into account in the revised manuscript.
(Q) page 4, line 33-36: According to reference [51], each segment of the capillary network has a certain
diameter varying from 4.7 µm to 14 µm. Is the value R = 7.64 µm an average value? The authors
should explain it more detailed.
(A) We have introduced a new paragraph to explain that taking into account of the radius variability
in the mathematical model introduces several technical difficulties, for example in the enforcement
of mass conservation at each bifurcation of the network, which have not been addressed yet in the
available computational solver. For this reason, we adopt a constant radius R = 7.64 × 10-6 m
that is the arithmetic average of the individual radii of each segment. A generalization of the flow
model to variable capillary radius is presented in [46] and will be used in forthcoming studies.
(Q) page 4, line 42: Write: the virtual tumor model...
(A) The revised manuscript has been corrected accordingly.
(Q) page 4, line 56: I would replace ”viscous fluid” by ”Newtonian fluid”.
(A) The paragraph containing this phrase has been modified, and therefore it is not anymore in the
revised manuscript.
(Q) Section 2a) Assumptions: I would add to the assumptions concerning the flow equations that body
forces and gravity are neglected.
(A) This is now named as hypothesis number (v) in the discussion of the flow model.
(Q) page 6, equation (2.1a) and (2.1d): In reference [7] and [8], the authors use an averaged pressure pt
such that the 3D pressure in the tissue pt and the 1D pressure in the capillaries pv can be compared.
However, in equation (2.1d) there is only pt and not pt .
(A) Equations (2.1a,c,d) of the revised manuscript have been corrected using pt and the precise def-
inition of this average value has been added afterwards. This is indeed the model formulation
proposed in references [7] and [8] and used ever since.
(Q) Furthermore the authors should explain more detailed how the oncotic pressure jump s p (pvp - ptp )
is computed.
(A) A thorough discussion on oncotic pressure has been added to the paragraph Constitutive laws and
parameters of section 2 (a).
(Q) page 7, line 46: Write: ... they circulate usually for several hours in ...
(A) The sentence has been corrected.
(Q) Section 2b) Assumptions: I would add to the assumptions concerning the mass transport model that
the nanoparticles do not alter the fluid properties (here: blood).
(A) In the revised manuscript we posit that that injecting VMNs into the circulation does not alter
the blood properties, that VMNs are not damaged during circulation and that they do not release
any sub-products.
(Q) page 8, line 38: The authors should explain, why they consider a fixed value for the wall shear
stress: 50 s-1 . In [1, section 2.1] the wall shear stress rate is computed by the radial derivative of
the velocity field, evaluated at the vessel wall:
<U+2202>u
W SR = <U+2202>r
,
r=R
where R is the averaged radius of the vessel. Assuming a parabolic profile in radial direction:
u(r) = 2.uv .(1 - ( Rr )2 ),
we have:
<U+2202>u
<U+2202>r
= -4. uRv .
r=R
This implies that the wall shear rate can be computed by the solution variables of the flow equations
and the corresponding parameters.
(A) We agree with the reviewer that the description of the model for the vascular adhesion parameter
(involving the wall shear rate) was very confusing. In the revised manuscript, we have made clear
that the value of VMN vascular deposition parameter <U+03A0> = 3 × 10-9 m sec-1 is calculated on
the basis of constants a2 = 4 × 109 #/m2 , ß = 2.3 × 1011 N-1 and ml Ka0 r02 = 1.26 × 10-9 m2 ,
which come from [28], and an average wall shear rate |W SR|=50 s-1 . This wall shear rate value
is consistent with the Poiseuille flow model, namely |W SR| = 4uv /R = 52 s-1 , using an average
blood velocity in the network of 0.1 mm/s and the capillary radius of R = 7.64 × 10-6 m. The
extension of the model to variable wall shear rate and vascular adhesion parameter will be addressed
together with one for variable capillary radius presented in [46].
(Q) In equation (2.5a) and (2.5c), the source term fT exhibits the arguments ct and cv . However, fT
does not depend on ct , but only on <U+03A8>(cv ) and cv . I would remove ct from the arguments such that
fT depends only on cv .
(Q) Figure 2b): The authors should add to every subfigure a color bar for <U+03A8> and scale it to the corre-
sponding range for <U+03A8>, such that the growth of <U+03A8> can be seen in a better way. In addition to that,
the quality of the figure should be improved. In the submitted PDF this figure seems to be a little
bit blurred.
(A) We have followed the suggestion of the reviewer for Figure 2b. More in general, we have improved
the quality of Figures 2,3,4, by magnifying the plots and improving the source files in order to
remove the blur.
(Q) page 11, line 30: Write: ... the tumor slab is exposed to an AMF only for 20 min.
(A) The text has been corrected.
(Q) page 12, line 40 and 41: The authors claim that the maximum temperatures in the tumor slab are
11.34<U+25E6> C or 12.03<U+25E6> C after heating the tumor. These values are much too low. On page 3 (line 9) it
is said that the tumor should be subjected to a temperature of 50<U+25E6> C such that the cancer cells are
killed.
(A) This remark points out some confusion that has been clarified in the revised manuscript. In the
Introduction, we have more precisely characterized hyperthermia as a (local) temperature state
between 42 and 50<U+25E6> C. Above 50<U+25E6> C thermal ablation occurs. Furthermore, all the temperature
maps reported in the manuscript show a temperature increase, namely <U+2206>T above Tbl = 37<U+25E6> C. As
a result, temperature increase of 11.34<U+25E6> C or 12.03<U+25E6> C fall within the range of hyperthermia.
We thank again the Reviewer for the careful reading and the suggested improvements.
Sincerely yours,
Mahdi Nabil, Paolo Zunino
Reply to the reviews of the manuscript:
A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on
vascular magnetic nanoconstructs
M. Nabil, P. Zunino
July 1, 2016
First of all, we would like to thank the Reviewer for the careful reading of the manuscript and for
the valuable recommendations. We have thoroughly taken into account all of them. The corresponding
major changes in the revised manuscript are reported in blue, for the sake of clarity.
Reviewer labelled as #2
Abstract
(Q) Keywords: I would recommend to devote at least one keyword to the multiscale method used.
(A) The keyword ”embedded multiscale method” has been added.
(Q) It is not clear what the authors mean by state-of-the-art in this context. I believe their technique
is quite advanced, and this could be pointed out. I would recommend to refer to the technique
(embedded multiscale method) explicitly. In case the authors mean that the actual computations are
performed using standard solvers, that is fine, but it is not necessarily worth pointing this out in
the abstract.
(A) We thank the reviewer for the useful suggestion, the abstract has been modified accordingly.
(Q) The authors state that: ...a unique capability of incorporating realistic microvasculature geome-
tries.... This sentence is highly questionable, as a one dimensional network made of straight lines
certainly cannot be considered realistic. However, it is true that the network map is constructed on
the basis of physiological data, and the technique is certainly capable to account for physical phe-
nomena taking place at the microvasculature level at a reduced computational cost. I would avoid
using the term re- alistic (everywhere, not only in the abstract), replacing it with something like
microvasculature based on physiological data and also put more emphasis on the reason why such
a 1-D network map is used, i.e. indeed to reduce the computational cost and, at the same time,
account for the tissue-vessels interplay.
(A) This suggestion has been taken into account throughout the entire manuscript.
Introduction
(Q) Concerning modeling and computations in nanomedicine, I would suggest to add (at least) one
paragraph, referring to appropriate and comprehensive review works in the literature, such as, for
example Haddish-Berhane et al. (2007), Taffetani et al. (2014).
(A) We have added a paragraph at the end of the introduction to comply with this remark.
(Q) Concerning multiscale modeling applied to transport of fluid and solute through healthy and tu-
mor microvasculature, I suggest that the authors carefully compare (highlighting advantages and
drawbacks) the embedded multiscale method (reporting appropriate, selected references also in the
introduction) embraced in their manuscript with alternative approaches exploiting mixture theory
(Schuff et al. (2013a,b)), and asymptotic homogenization. In the latter case, I suggest to refer
to the paradigmatic work Shipley and Chapman (2010), and especially to its generalization Penta
et al. (2015), which compares well with the fluid and drug dynamics con- sidered by the authors
from the modeling viewpoint. In the latter work, in fact, tissue scale diffusion, as well as a full
non-equilibrium thermodynamical approach for extravasation of fluid and solute through the vessels
(including osmosis effects) are taken into account. Finally, in Penta and Ambrosi (2015), the au-
thors solve the fluid transport model Shipley and Chapman (2010) varying the (three-dimensional)
microvasculature geometry. They show that the latter directly influences the hydraulic properties
of the vessels (which cannot be explicitly considered via the embedded multiscale method), and that
geometrical complexity can dramatically impair transport of blood (and, in turn, advected drug) in
solid tumors.
(A) We have addressed these important remarks and improvements of the literature review in the
following paragraph added to the introduction:
Our approach is complementary to other multiscale methods that lay down their roots on mix-
ture theory and mathematical homogenization, see [Schuff et al. (2013a,b), Shipley and Chapman
(2010)] for some paradigmatic examples. Under the assumption of scale separation and locally
periodic microstructure, these methods aim at determining the average properties of the macroscale
(characterized by the whole tumor), in the asymptotic limit where the ratio between micro and macro
characteristic scales vanishes. Rather than seeing these methods as competitors to the proposed ap-
proach, we think that they will complement each other. Indeed, the embedded multiscale method
may facilitate and speed up the solution of the unit cell problems defined in the asymptotic homog-
enization approaches, see for instance [Shipley and Chapman (2010), Penta et al. (2015), Penta
and Ambrosi (2015)]. The numerical solutions obtained in this way, may be processed by means
of suitable averaging operators in order to evaluate the impact of microscale flow and transport
parameters, as well as miscrovascular configuration such as tortuosity, on the perfusion properties
of the whole tumor.
(Q) The authors state that: ..One of the most significant features of this study is the description of
a realistic microvasculature, which is modeled as a network of one-dimensional (1D) vessels. ....
Once again, a one- dimensional representation of the microvasculature cannot be considered real-
stic, although it can be certinaly considered a valuable tool, which is, in this case, also based on
realistic physiological data. They continue stating that this feature is essential to capture the inter-
action between nanoconstructs and the vessels. It is of course true that it is essential to account
for the microstructure explicitly in order to model the interaction of particles (such as adhesion)
appropriately. However, the approach presented in this paper accounts for geometrical variations
solely with respect to vessels length and angles between them, rather than the hydraulic prop- erties
of the network as such. In particular, since they are assuming the simple Poiseulles law (i.e. pre-
cisely the analytic results that is obtained solving the appropriate Stokes problem in a cylinder), the
influence of geometrical properties of the vessels walls, and their implications on (a) blood and drug
extravasation and (b) wall shear stress and, in turn particle adhesion, is neglected. The authors
should briefly comment on these aspects in the introduction and more thoroughly in the modeling
part, as well as in the conclusions.
(A) We have systematically removed the reference to the description of a realistic microvasculature
throughout the whole manuscript. As regards the important concerns about model limitations,
namely points (a) and (b) above, we believe that the section Models and methods is the most
appropriate place to address them. In section 2 (a) we point out that: Microcirculation is char-
acterized by low Womersley and Reynolds numbers. In these conditions, the general Navier-Stokes
equations reduce to steady Stokes flow. Under additional assumptions of (i) straight channels; (ii)
rigid walls; (iii) constant radius; (iv) no-slip boundary conditions for the velocity; (v) absence of
body forces such as gravity and inertial forces; Stokes flow further simplifies to Poiseuille equations,
namely (2.1e). . . . However, we apply the model in conditions where Poiseuille’s assumptions are
not rigorously satisfied. In particular, transmural flow is allowed, but it must be small with respect
to the axial velocity component. Furthermore, each vessel branch does not have to be straight, but
curvature must be small. Improvements of the current flow model are in order: (a) for a better
approximation of the extravasation effects; (b) to relieve constraints on small curvature and conse-
quently allow to analyze configurations characterized by high tortuosity, which plays an important
role on the average hydraulic conductivity of tumors, as discussed in[Penta and Ambrosi (2015)]; (c)
to improve the characterization of stresses on the wall, which in turn will affect particle adhesion.
Models and Methods
(Q) (a): Assumptions-Boundary conditions: The authors should clearly specify that, according to their
(fairly reasonable) assumptions on low Reynolds number flow in the vessels, the Stokes problem
should be used to model the blood flow in the vessels. Then, as a further simplification, they directly
consider the ”Poiseuilles law”, i.e., rigorously, the average of the solution of the Stokes problem
(equipped with homogeneous Dirichlet conditions on the lateral surface) that would be obtained
considering a constant pressure gradient across a cylinder. Although they then adapt back that law
to account for variations of the pressure versus the curvilin- ear coordinate s, this approach is not
suitable when geometrical variations of the vessels walls are significant. The authors should briefly
comment on these aspects and provide possible suggestions for future improvements, also referring
to, and comparing with, the discussions reported in Penta and Ambrosi (2015), and references
therein concerning the role of channels tortuosity in fluid-dynamics, as I suggest in the above
comments concerning the introduction of this manuscript.
(A) Section 2(a) has been complemented with a new paragraph which addresses these considerations.
(Q) Concerning the boundary conditions, do the authors mean that they apply known (interstitial) pres-
sures pin and pout and then recover the pressure gradient in the vessels using Poiseuilles law,
and then the pressure in the vessels itself pv? Are they approximating the pressure gradient with
a constant value in the vessels? (this may be reasonable, but it should be clearly stated, if that
happens to be the case). I suggest that the authors rephrase this para- graph for the sake of clarity.
The boundary conditions should be clearly stated and any assumption reported explicitly.
(A) The flow model on <U+039B> does not rely on the assumption that the pressure gradient is constant. Indeed,
as shown by equation (2.1c) che pressure gradient may very from pint to point. However, we agree
that the phrase By applying the Poiseuilles law, we obtain the pressure drop pin - pout to capture
the blood flow average velocity equal to 0.1 mm/s, in the same range of the data provided by [32]
is misleading. It means that, using a fictitious model consisting of a straight rigid pipe of length
|<U+039B>| and radius R, we have manually calculated the pressure drop pin - pout that corresponds to an
average velocity of 0.1 mm/s in the pipe. The revised manuscript includes a better description of
this preliminary calculation.
(Q) (a) constitutive law and parameters. The authors formally consider the role of the oncotic pressure
(i.e. the osmotic pressure mainly due to the proteins in the plasma). However, they do not report
the membrane selectivity (i.e. what they call sieving coefficient s p ) and, in any case, it is well-
known that this contributions is very small compared to the mechanics pressure drop in vascular
tumors (to the best of my knowledge there should be a three order of magnitude difference between
the two). That coefficient depends on both the vessels’ walls permeability and on the particles size
and the authors should check the appropriate literature (see, e.g. Jain et al. (2007)) and update
their table, although I do think that this contribution can be neglected without affecting the results.
I would also like to remark that this might not be the case for the osmotic pressure due to large
particles, such as the nanoconstructs that are considered in this work. The authors even state
that these nanoconstructs are larger than the vessels’ membrane pore size and that they do not
extravasate. It may well be that, on the basis of this argument (reported by the authors themselves),
osmosis due to these particle play a relevant role affecting the fluid dynamics in both compartment.
The authors can refer to Penta et al. (2015), where a discussion concerning the contribution of
osmosis due to injected particles is reported. It would be extremely interesting to see this addition
(and its consequences on the results) implemented, although I do realize that this would change the
computational work flow, as that osmotic term would depend on the drug concentration difference
across the capillaries membrane, so that the system of equations for the fluid flow would no longer
be independent on particle concentration. However, the authors should at least carefully comment
on these aspects, both in the modeling section, and in the conclusions. It is possible that such an
addition can foster future development towards an interesting extension of their model.
(A) We have added to the paragraph Constitutive laws and parameters some additional details about
the oncotic pressure model and respective values.
(Q) 2(b) Mass transport model. I assume the authors completely neglect the drug dynamics in the
interstitial compartment because they do not consider the extravasation of the nanoconstructes
(VMN) in the tumor. However, I would have expected that the VMN acted solely as a particle
delivery vector, and that, afterwards, extravasation of iron oxide particles (in principle, both of
convective and diffusion type) would have taken place. The authors should very carefully clarify
this point, as it is paramount for the sake of the readers understanding (and for reproducibility of
the authors results). Furthermore, the authors distinguish (later on in the manuscript) two cases,
i.e. iron oxide carried via VMN vs iron oxide alone. In the latter case, as the authors indeed state
(!) (at the beginning of section 3), the dynamics take place via extravasation from the vessels into
the interstitium. It might be possible that in this latter case (the 40 minutes circulation, section 3),
advection-diffusion of iron oxide, together with appropriate extravasation terms concentrated in the
vessels (as appropriate), is (or should be) considered. Should this be the case, the authors would have
to report the correct modeling equations for this particular case. In any case, the authors should
carefully clarify this point, and certinly precisely state (and report) the mathematical implications
of their assumptions I understand that they focus on a particular time scale (which may of course be
tuned to focus on certain physical aspects, as they do), although they should clearly justify (reporting
a brief parameters analysis) that extravasation of particle can be entirely neglected.
(A) Two models are be adopted to describe IONPs and VMNs, respectively, because these vectors
interact differently with the tissue. For the former, we use the model previously described in the
companion paper [44]. As the reviewer correctly infers, this model includes extravasation as well
as diffusion and transport of the IONPs in the interstitial volume. For VMNs, we develop here
a new model based on the assumption that VMNs adhere to the wall, do not extravasate and
do not release sub-products. These differences have been clarified in the Introduction and in the
Description of the results.
(Q) 2 (c) Heat tranfer model. The heat sink term due to the lymphatic drainage does not appear to
be correct at all. In particular it seems that its physical unit, and meaning, are incorrect, as it
reads as a mass source multiplied by a pressure difference, as opposite to the term related to the
microvasculature, which appears instead to be correct, and solely proportional to the temperature
difference between the tissue and the vessels, which is multiplied by an appropriate thermal conduc-
tivity coefficient ßT . The authors should certainly check the units of every term in their equations
for the heat transfer phenomena and either (a) correct the term related to the lymphatic drainage
or (b) should it be physically correct as it reads, explain its meaning thoroughly and fix the units
reporting any coefficient that might be possibly missing.
(A) We observe that the lymphatic sink term in the flow equations has, as expected, the same dimen-
sions as <U+2207> · ut . Indeed in Table 1 we report that
 LF s  1
 s
 1
Lp v = [pressure][time] <U+21D2> LLF p v (pt - pL ) = [time]
As a result, we believe that the lymphatic sink term in the heat equation, namely (2.5a) is correct,
because its dimensions are coherent with the other terms, for example
h <U+2202>T i [temperature]  LF s 
= = Lp v (pt - pL )(T - Tbl )
<U+2202>t [time]
Indeed, the computational solver works with parameters in dimensionless form. To comply with
that constraint, the dimensional coherence of all the equations has been carefully double-checked
many times.
(Q) 2 (d) Computational solver. This subsection is presented in a clear and proof-reading manner. I
would just suggest to comment on the overall computational cost to help the broad, non technical
audience (i.e. is parallel computing necessary, and to what extent?)
(A) We have added further information of the computational costs. In particular, numerical simulations
have been preformed on a standard single core desktop PC. The clock time for simulations is
comparable to the simulated time (i.e. a simulation that ends at 12 hours requires approximately
12 hours of computational time). We believe that these figures feature significant margins of
improvement, as the ongoing optimization of the computational efficiency of the software actually
shows.
Results and discussion
(Q) Once again, it is strongly necessary to refer to the correct system of partial differential equations
that is implemented in the two main cases (i.e. 40min circulations versus the other three cases),
should they be different (see also my earlier comment on the mass transport model section).
(A) In Section 3(b) Description of the results we have clarified that for IONPs we do not adopt the mass
transport model (2.2), but the specific model for small particles already developed in a companion
study [44]. In particular, the model for IONP differs form (2.2) because it incorporates particle
extravasation, diffusion and transport in the interstitial space.
(Q) I think that the authors obtain a more uniform temperature distribution for particles transported via
VMN because, as the interstitial drug dynamics is neglected (the particles stick to the vessels’ walls
and are not advected/diffuesd through the tissue), the blood vessels act as a fairly uniform (because
of the topology, as the authors correctly remark) heat source, and a uniform distribution is reached
for a sufficiently large time interval. The same argument does not apply to iron oxide which is not
transported through VMN, as in this case a much shorter time is considered (that is, I am left to
assume, because after this short time window, they could not neglect extravasation and proper tissue
drug dynamics anymore). The authors should comment the above mentioned interpretation (both
in the response and in the manuscript, as appropriate), and, in general, comment more thoroughly
the results that they have obtained.
(A) We point out that extravasation is never neglected for IONP (small particles). Indeed, another
model than (2.2) is used to simulate their behavior, as discussed in [45]. IONPs circulation time is
small because they are quickly washed out by the action of lymphatics or leak-off from the tumor
region.
(Q) It would be much clearer for the reader to use similar time interval for the two cases and include
the proper drug dynamics for the iron oxide transported alone. This way, the authors would obtain
most likely the same (qualitatively at least) results, and would observe the heterogeneities in the
temperature distribution as a consequence of particles transported from the vessels to the tissue,
which would possibly act as scattered source of heat rather than a uniform one. It may well be that
the two approaches are equivalent, nonetheless, I would strongly suggest the authors to add at least
a discussion on these aspects and comment on the physical interpretation of the results.
(A) We believe that simulating IONP and VMNs on the same time scale would lead to an unfair
comparison, because their behavior is substantially different. In particular, with any reasonable
injected concentration, a circulation time of 40 minutes will be too short to observe a significant
accumulation of VMNs on the arterial wall.
(Q) What is the quantitative and qualitative role of lymphatic vessels on hyperthermia?
(A) As the heat transfer model (2.5) shows, lymphatics absorb part of the heat that is released by
the VMNs. The role of lymphatic vessels is more significant when IONPs are considered, be-
cause the model used in that case assumes that lymphatic drainage acts directly on the particle
concentrations, by sequestrating particles from the region of interest.
Conclusions
(Q) The authors should comment on the (potentially paramount) role of osmosis due to nanoconstructs
in the vessels.
(Q) I do agree with the authors that future work should account for a more refined microscale model
for particle adhesion. In addition, it would be also crucial to account for the geometrical tortuosity
of the vessels membrane and its implications on the wall shear stress and fluid convection. The
authors should try to depict further perspectives related to these aspects. As a first, simple step, it
may be possible that the authors could combine recent findings in the multiscale asymptotic literature
to slightly modify the Poiseuilles law and start to account for more complex vessels geome- try at
a fairly reasonable computational cost and still formally within the framework of the embedded
multiscale method.
(A) We have mentioned both suggested improvements in the conclusions and we will certainly consider
them for future developments.
(Q) I agree with the last sentence of the paper, as the model would surely benefit from integration with
complementary and alternative multicale methods. I would add, here, at least one paragraph, refer-
ring to the appropriate literature (as I remarked above where I comment on the introductory section)
and provide example of future research directions that can merge different multiscale techniques.
I do think that combining different mutiscale techniques, especially for complex multiphysiscs bio-
logical systems, could help to overcome their limitations towards a more realistic representation of
physical phenomena.
(A) We appreciate the encouragement of the reviewer to adopt a multiscale simulation approach, as
we are currently doing in the ongoing work. As suggested, we have significantly expanded the
Introduction with a review of these methods in the area of cancer modeling. However, we are
reluctant to give more details about the approach under development in the Conclusions, because
the available results are not yet mature.
Other comments
(Q) I wish to conclude this report drawing the authors attention to the several typos which are present
in more than one section, especially in the introduction and modeling part (in some cases, it is
possible that they forgot to write letters with accents in the appropriate way in the latex code).
(A) Those typos have been corrected.
(Q) Furthermore, I would suggest that the authors report the SI counterpart for every parameter, as
this may greatly help the reader to readily reproduce the results.
(A) The reproducibility of the results is guaranteed provided that units are specified for any reported
quantity.We have carefully double-checked the manuscript to make sure that units are always
specified. We have decided to keep pressures and concentrations expressed in units other than
the SI system, namely mmHg and mg/ml respectively, because these variables are more naturally
measured using these units in this specific case. For the reader’s convenience, conversion factors
are reported.
We thank again the Reviewer for the careful reading and the suggested improvements.
Sincerely yours,
Mahdi Nabil, Paolo Zunino
Reviewer’s report on the revised version of the manuscript:
A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on vascular magnetic
nanoconstructs,
by Nabil, Mahdi; Zunino, Paolo; submitted to the Royal Society Open Science.
I am positively impressed by the thorough and appropriate changes undertaken
by the authors and I personally enjoyed the revised version of the manuscript.
Most of the points have been well addressed. However, there is still one issue
which does need a clarification, as I comment below.
In the Section Constitutive laws and parameters the authors have added a cou-
ple of paragraphs to comply with the reviewers’ suggestions (including mine).
However, it is worth pointing out that the estimate that they provide for the
oncotic pressure (i.e. the osmotic pressure due to plasma proteins) solely holds
for healthy microvasculature (as a matter of fact, also the absolute value of
25 mmHG is very high and questionable, and the oncotic pressure can greatly
vary with respect to the tumor type. However, at least the order of magnitude
is correct in this case).
There is plenty of literature reporting that the membrane selectivity s is close
to one for healthy microvasculature, whereas it approaches zero (compared to
one) for tumor microvasculatures. A relevant example can be found in Jain
et al. (2007), where the authors report the values of s estimated on the basis
of a very simple model which accounts for the difference between the radius of
the membranes’ pore compared to that of the plasma proteins (see Jain et al.
(2007), page 2732). These values are reported in Jain et al. (2007), Table 3, page
2732. In the latter Table, they will see that an oncotic pressure of ˜ 10 mmHG
is reasonable for healthy microvasculature, as the latter is not highly leaking
and the corresponding s is indeed close to one (0.91 in the specific case I refer
above). However, for both tumor and normalized microvasculature, this is by
no means the case, and s ˜ 10-5 - 10-3 , i.e. it approaches zero when copared
to 1.
On the basis of the above mentioned quantitative argument, I can now further
emphasize the point I raised in the last report, i.e. whenever tumor microvas-
culatures are taken into account, the osmotic pressure contribution due to the
proteins is negligible, because their radius is much smaller than that of the pores
of the vessels membrane. However, it may well be that this contribution plays a
role for particles larger than these proteins. This is the reason why, in tumors,
it may be more reasonable to account for the osmotic pressure due to injected
drugs (or nanoconstructs) rather than plasma proteins, as in the latter case it
is already known that they do not play a significant role.
I have personally nothing against introducing this term in the formulation, but I
recommend, in the light of the considerations above, that the authors undertake
the following changes:
• Please report that the oncotic pressure contribution is negligible in vascu-
larized tumors, unless the pores of the capillary’s wall are not much larger
than the radius of plasma proteins. The authors can certainly justify that
they include this term for the sake of generality, at the time they are aware
that this contribution is negligible for highly leaking tumor microvascula-
tures.
• Although the authors state that the concentration of plasma proteins can
be 5 to 10 times greater than that of VMN, the authors should acknowl-
edge that the ratio between pores and molecules radius is the paramount
variable in determining the importance of this contribution. And that
is the reason why such a contribution may be relevant in governing the
dynamics.
• The authors state: “The oncotic effect generated by the injected VMNs
is neglected in this work. Nevertheless, this is an open question to be
explored in future studies, since albumin serum concentration is only 5
to 10 times bigger than the VMN systemic concentrations reached after
injection”. The reader should clearly understand that, if a 25 mmHG
oncotic pressure is taken into account, a contribution due to VMN may
not play a crucial difference, as its concentration is indeed likely to be
much lower than that of the plasma proteins. On the other hand, for
tumor, leaking microvasculatures, if the hydrodynamic radius of VMN is
bigger than the radius of plasma proteins, then the osmotic contribution
due to the concentration difference across the capillaries’ walls is likely to
be the only relevant osmotic contribution, as the oncotic pressure due to
plasma proteins is negligible in this case. Therefore, I believe that either
a strong oncotic pressure is taken into account, as done by the authors
(and this is reasonable for relatively small vessels’ membrane openings),
or the oncotic pressure is neglected and possible osmotic contributions due
to large particles are considered, depending on how their radius compares
with that of the (large) pores.
References
Jain RK, Tong RT, Munn LL (2007) Effect of vascular normalization by
antiangiogenic therapy on interstitial hypertension, peritumor edema, and
lymphatic metastasis: insights from a mathematical model. Cancer Res
67(6):2729–2735
Reply to the second review of the manuscript:
A computational study of cancer hyperthermia based on
vascular magnetic nanoconstructs
M. Nabil, P. Zunino
August 16, 2016
We are grateful to the reviewer for the insightful suggestion. Following the provided guidelines, we
ve revised the paragraph containing the statement The oncotic effect generated by the injected VMNs
neglected in this work. Nevertheless, this is an open question to be explored in future studies, since
bumin serum concentration is only 5 to 10 times bigger than the VMN systemic concentrations reached
ter injection as follows:
In healthy capillaries, proteins dissolved into the blood serum and in particular albumin are respon-
ble for most of the oncotic pressure, which can rise up to about 25 mmHg. To model this effect we set
= 25, ptp = 0 mmHg and s p <U+2243> 1, since proteins hardly leak through the capillary walls as capillary
nestrations are small with respect to protein’s molecular radius. As a result we obtain s p (pvp -ptp ) = 25
mHg (1 mmHg = 133.322 Pa). Since albumin serum concentration is 5 to 10 times bigger than the
MN systemic concentrations reached after injection, the oncotic effect generated by the injected VMNs
n be neglected. This is the scenario taken into account in the simulations presented in this work.
owever, data reported in [34] show that in leaky tumor vasculature, the oncotic pressure may be signif-
antly lower than 25 mmHg, because the ratio between the protein radius and the one of the capillary
nestrations decreases. This is modeled by assigning a smaller value to the sieving coefficient s p , which
n fall below 10-3 , according to [34]. Then, the role of VMNs on osmosis may become relevant. Indeed,
may happen that the radius of VMN in use will be comparable or larger than the one of the fenestra-
ns in the capillary wall. In this case, VMNs may become the dominant oncotic agent in the tumor
sculature. This other scenario is not considered in this work, but will be the subject of future studies.
e thank again the Reviewer for the careful reading and the suggested improvements.
ncerely yours,
Mahdi Nabil, Paolo Zunino
Society Open
