Catalytic methyl esterification of colophony over
ZnO/SFCCR with subcritical CO2: catalytic performance,
reaction pathway and kinetics
Xubin Wang, Linlin Wang, Xiaopeng Chen, Dan Zhou, Han Xiao, Xiaojie Wei and Jiezhen
Liang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172124.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172124
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172124.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Girish Kumar)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The influence of various reaction parameters and pivotal role of subcritical CO2 to improve the
esterification reaction together with the stability of ZnO/SFCCR heterogeneous catalysts is neatly
presented. The choice of SFCCR as solid support for the growth of ZnO and their detailed
characterization offers better understanding. Few minor clarifications are needed!
Major comments
(1) Is it possible to compare the efficiency of ZnO/SFCCR with other transition metal oxides for
better understanding?
(2) Does increasing the content of ZnO in the catalyst affecting the conversion efficiency? If data
available, it may be supplemented.
Minor comments
Highlights
Abstract
(1) It is neatly presented.
(2) Remove the term ‘novel’ while defining the experimental setup throughout the article.
Introduction
(1) The introduction is extensively lengthy in its content and needs to be reduced.
(2) The choice of SFCCR is clearly justified, while ZnO seems to be isolated which needs
attention.
Section 2.2
(1) Are the authors sure that no base was added to precipitate ZnCl2 prior to calcination step?
Does it mean that impregnated Zn2+ ions onto the surface of SFCCR support directly
transformed to ZnO after the annealing?
Results and discussion
(1) The Py-IR for bare ZnO should also be discussed for clarity.
(2) Typo: vascosity (near to ref. citations of 29,30)
(3) Is it possible to derive the yield of esters obtained from AA, PA, NA and DA?
Figures and Tables
(1) Both figure and tables are heavily loaded! Figure 4 and Tables 2, 3, 4 and 6 may be shifted to
supplementary materials.
(2) The quality of Figure 7 should be improved for visibility.
S. Girsh Kumar
Department of Chemistry,
SOET, CMR UNIVERSITY,
BANGALORE-562149,
KARNATAKA, INDIA
https://publons.com/author/1300703/s-girish-kumar#profile
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The data presented in the manuscript by Wang et al. is convincing and almost complete. The
authors discuss the work in context of current literature sufficiently, but more specific number
comparisons would be helpful.
Overall, the study described in this manuscript represents a valuable contribution to the field and
will be acceptable for publication after minor corrections.
Please indicate how was the catalyst separated from the reaction medium.
Kindly clearly indicate the immobilization yield (ca 80%) and add a rationale and comparison
with the state of the art literature.
Regarding the stability of the catalyst, the knowledge of the recyclability of the catalyst would be
rather important and therefore the authors are advised to add the results from the corresponding
assays to the manuscript.
The authors should also carefully revise English language and style as some typos were found
along the text.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172124)
07-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Wang:
Title: Catalytic methyl esterification of colophony over ZnO/SFCCR with subcritical CO2:
catalytic performance, reaction pathway and kinetics
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172124
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
4
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172124
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
5
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
6
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Please ensure that you thoroughly revise the written English in this manuscript. The Editors
recommend consulting an English language polishing service prior to resubmission
(https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/language-polishing/).
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The influence of various reaction parameters and pivotal role of subcritical CO2 to improve the
esterification reaction together with the stability of ZnO/SFCCR heterogeneous catalysts is neatly
presented. The choice of SFCCR as solid support for the growth of ZnO and their detailed
characterization offers better understanding. Few minor clarifications are needed!
Major comments
(1) Is it possible to compare the efficiency of ZnO/SFCCR with other transition metal oxides for
better understanding?
7
(2) Does increasing the content of ZnO in the catalyst affecting the conversion efficiency? If data
available, it may be supplemented.
Minor comments
Highlights
Abstract
(1) It is neatly presented.
(2) Remove the term ‘novel’ while defining the experimental setup throughout the article.
Introduction
(1) The introduction is extensively lengthy in its content and needs to be reduced.
(2) The choice of SFCCR is clearly justified, while ZnO seems to be isolated which needs
attention.
Section 2.2
(1) Are the authors sure that no base was added to precipitate ZnCl2 prior to calcination step?
Does it mean that impregnated Zn2+ ions onto the surface of SFCCR support directly
transformed to ZnO after the annealing?
Results and discussion
(1) The Py-IR for bare ZnO should also be discussed for clarity.
(2) Typo: vascosity (near to ref. citations of 29,30)
(3) Is it possible to derive the yield of esters obtained from AA, PA, NA and DA?
Figures and Tables
(1) Both figure and tables are heavily loaded! Figure 4 and Tables 2, 3, 4 and 6 may be shifted to
supplementary materials.
(2) The quality of Figure 7 should be improved for visibility.
S. Girsh Kumar
Department of Chemistry,
SOET, CMR UNIVERSITY,
BANGALORE-562149,
KARNATAKA, INDIA
https://publons.com/author/1300703/s-girish-kumar#profile
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The data presented in the manuscript by Wang et al. is convincing and almost complete. The
authors discuss the work in context of current literature sufficiently, but more specific number
comparisons would be helpful.
Overall, the study described in this manuscript represents a valuable contribution to the field and
will be acceptable for publication after minor corrections.
Please indicate how was the catalyst separated from the reaction medium.
Kindly clearly indicate the immobilization yield (ca 80%) and add a rationale and comparison
with the state of the art literature.
Regarding the stability of the catalyst, the knowledge of the recyclability of the catalyst would be
rather important and therefore the authors are advised to add the results from the corresponding
assays to the manuscript.
The authors should also carefully revise English language and style as some typos were found
along the text.
8
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172124)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172124.R1)
22-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Wang,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Catalytic methyl esterification of
colophony over ZnO/SFCCR with subcritical CO2: catalytic performance, reaction pathway and
kinetics" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Anthony Stace (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Manuscript Number: RSOS-172124
Type: Research paper
Title: Catalytic methyl esterification of colophony over ZnO/SFCCR with subcritical
CO2: catalytic performance, reaction pathway and kinetics
Author(s): Xubin Wang, Linlin Wang*, Xiaopeng Chen*, Dan Zhou, Han Xiao,
Xiaojie Wei, Jiezhen Liang
Dear Editor and referees:
Thank you very much for your letter and the comments from the referees about our
paper (Catalytic methyl esterification of colophony over ZnO/SFCCR with subcritical
CO2: catalytic performance, reaction pathway and kinetics) submitted to Royal
Socieity Open Science. Thank you for your time and effort in reviewing this paper.
Your comments are all valuable and very helpful for revising and improving our paper,
as well as to help guide the significance of our research. We have revised the
manuscript according to your kind advice and the referees' detailed suggestions, and
we have carefully proofread the manuscript to minimize typographical, grammatical,
and bibliographical errors. Moreover, the language of the paper has been proofread
carefully by an English professional. In addition. The changes in the revised
manuscript are highlighted (in red). Below are the responses to the comments from
the editor and reviewers.
Responses to the Associate Editor
Thank you very much for your effort in reviewing our manuscript. We appreciate
your professional attitude in the review of our study. We have revised the paper
carefully according to your suggestions. The paper has been consulted the English
language polishing service.
Responses to Referees
Part A (Reviewer 1)
1) . The reviewer's comment: Is it possible to campare the effciency of ZnO/SFCCR
with other transition metal oxides for better understanding?
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your helpful suggestions. We have
complemented the experiment of Al2O3-catalyzed the methyl esterification reaction,
and added the experiment data to “3.2 The acid-catalyzed reaction” on Page 8-9 in the
revised manuscript.
2) . The reviewer's comment: Does increasing the content of ZnO in the catalyst
affecting the conversion effciency? If data available, it may be supplemented.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your comment. During the process of
catalyst preparation, several factors can affect the activity of the catalyst, such as the
loading of Zn, the calcining temperature and time, and the results will be disscused in
our next paper. In this paper, we mainly focus on the process optimization of methyl
esterification, reaction pathway and kinetics, and the catalysts were prepared under
the optimal conditions.
3) . The reviewer's comment: Abstract: Remove the term “novel” while defining
the experimental setup throughout the article.
The author's reply: Thank you for your careful review and correction. The term
“novel” has been delected in the revised manuscript.
4) . The reviewer's comment: Introduction: The introduction is extensively
lengthly in its content and needs to be reduced.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your suggestions. We have revised the
introduction part according to your suggestions, and the detailed revision can be seen
under “Introduction” on page 2-3 in the revised manuscript.
5) . The reviewer's comment: Introduction: The choice of SFCCR is clearly
justified, while ZnO seems to be isolated which needs attention.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your comment. We have added the
advantages of ZnO catalyst on Page 3 in the revised manuscript.
6) . The reviewer's comment: Section 2.2: Are the authors sure that no base was
added to precipitate ZnCl2 prior to calcination step? Does it mean that impregnanted
Zn2+ ions onto the surface of SFCCR support directly transformed to ZnO after the
annealing?
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your comment. In this section, we
haven’t add any base to precipitate ZnCl2 to generate Zn(OH)2. The supported catalyst
can usually be prepared by impregnation with a salt solution containing the active
ingredient (Tanaka Y, Utaka T, Kikuchi R, Sasaki K, Eguchi K. 2003 CO removal
from reformed fuel over Cu/ZnO/Al2O3 catalysts prepared by impregnation and
coprecipitation methods. Appl. Cata. A. Gene. 238, 11-18; Tao M, Meng X, Lv Y,
Bian Z, Xin Z. 2016 Effect of impregnation solvent on Ni dispersion and catalytic
properties of Ni/SBA-15 for CO methanation reaction. Fuel. 165, 289-297). The main
steps for preparing ZnO/SFCCR are as follows: Fully impregnate the carrier with a
certain concentration of ZnNO3 or ZnCl2 solutions for a period of time, then the
supported ZnO catalysts can be obtained through dried at 110 °C for 6 h and calcined
at 450 °C for 4 h under atmospheric pressure. The preparation of homogeneous ZnO
is usually making the Zn(OH)2 first, and then heat to decompose it to obtain the ZnO
products.
7). The reviewer's comment: Results and discussion: The Py-IR for bare ZnO
should also be discussed for clarity.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your valuable suggestions. The Py-IR
results for bare ZnO has been supplemented into the revised manuscript, and the
detailed revision can be seen in “3.1 Catalyst characterization” on page 8.
8) . The reviewer's comment: Results and discussion: Typo: vascosity (near to
ref. Citations of 29,30).
The author's reply: Thank you for your careful review and correction. We are so
sorry to the errors in the typo, and “vascosity” has been corrected to “viscosity” in the
revised manuscript.
9) . The reviewer's comment: Results and discussion: Is it possible to derive the
yield of esters obtained from AA, PA, NA and DA?
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your comment. Generally, there are
two ways to derive the the yield of esters obtained from AA, PA, NA and DA, one of
which is to purify the colophony acids to gain the single AA, PA, NA and DA, and
then get the methyl esterification products. The research on purification of colophony
acids has continued for many years, which is based on chemical methods, such as the
adding of sodium salts, ammomium salts or the use of heterogeneous crystallization
method (Zeiss HH. 1952 Separation of rosin acids. Patent number: US 19522580496;
Loeblich VM, Lawrence RV. 1956 An improved procedure for the isolation of
neoabietic acid from pine oleoresin and rosin[J]. J. Org. Chem. 21, 610-611; Zhao Z,
Chen Y, Bi L, Gu Y, Li D, Wang J, Lu Y. 2012 Preparation method of primaric acid
type resin acid. Patent number: US 20120004390). The other method is to purify the
colophony methyl esters directly, and several reports have been published about the
separation and purification of esters (Cleary MT, Kulprathipanja S, Neuzil RW. 1982
Process for separating esters of fatty and rosin acids. Patent number: US
19824329280; Lubsen TA, Maag GA. 1980 Separation of fatty acid esters. Patent
number: US 19804189442). However, there are several problems in the process of
purify the colophony acids and the ralated esters, such as costing large amounts of
organic solvents and getting a low purity products, so it is not suitable for industrial
production.
10) . The reviewer's comment: Figures and Tables: Both figures and tables are
heavily loaded! Figure 4 and Tables 2, 3, 4 and 6 may be shifted to supplementary
materials.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your helpful suggestions. We have
revised the figures and tables according to your suggestions, and Figure 4, 5 and Table
2, 3, 4, 6 have been shifted to supplementary materials.
11) . The reviewer's comment: Figures and Tables: The quality of Figure 7
should be improved for visibility.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your suggestions. Figure 7 has been
re-edited in the revised manuscript.
Once again, Thank you for your comments and suggestions. Your comments and
suggestions are quiet helpful for our current and future work and hope to learn
more from you.
Responses to Referees
Part B (Reviewer 2)
1) . The reviewer's comment: Please indicate how was the catalyst separated from
the reaction medium.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your valuable suggestions. The
separation process of the catalyst has been supplemented into the revised manuscript,
and the detailed revision can be seen in “2.3 Experimental steup and procedure” on
page 5.
2) . The reviewer's comment: Kindly clearly indicate the immobilization yield (ca
80%) and add a rationale and comparison with the state of the art literature.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your helpful suggestions. The yield of
products and a comparison with the literature were added into the revised manuscript,
and the detailed revision can be seen in “3.3 The effects of varying reaction factors”
on page 12.
3) . The reviewer's comment: Regarding the stability of the catalyst, the knowledge
of the recyclability of the catalyst would be rather important and therefore the authors
are advised to add the results from the corresponding assays to the manuscript.
The author's reply: Thank you very much for your comment. In this paper, we have
done lots of experiments to explore the stability and recyclability of the catalysts and
discussed it in “3.4 Assessing catalyst stability” on page 13. In this section, we can
clearly see the good stability of catalysts and the extent to which sub-CO2 can
effectively enhance the catalyst life span by reducing coke formation.
4) . The reviewer's comment: The author should also carefully revise English
language and style as some typos were found along the text.
The author's reply: Thank you for your careful review and correction. We are so
sorry to the errors in the typo, and the right has been corrected in the revised
manuscript. Besides, We have carefully rechecked the English language of whole
manuscript to avoid the mistakes.
Special thanks to you for your all comments. Your comments and suggestions are
quiet helpful to improve our manuscript.
Many grammatical or typographical errors have been revised. Thank you and the
reviewers for the kind advice. In all, We found the reviewer’s comments quite helpful.
Thank you and the reviewers again for your help!
Sincerely yours,
Linlin Wang
Society Open
