Isothermal pumping analysis for high-altitude tethered
balloons
Kirsty A. Kuo and Hugh E. M. Hunt
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140468.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140468
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 20 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 18 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 19 May 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140468.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (John Shepherd)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting & valuable paper, that addresses some basic engineering aspects of
proposed high-altitude balloon systems, especially those designed to deliver materials to the
stratosphere via a tethered hose. In particular it considers the requirement to avoid freezing of the
fluids that might be pumped (including SO2) under low temperature and high pressure
conditions, which has not to my knowledge been considered carefully before. The conclusions (in
particular that this may be difficult to avoid for SO2, but not for a small quantity of hydrogen or
TiO2 in liquid nitrogen) are of considerable practical significance.
So far as I can judge the work is sound, and I found no significant problems with the paper. The
figures are clear and appropriately captioned, and the references are sufficient and appropriate
(but I have not checked them). The following suggestions would however enable it to be
improved.
The paper assumes isothermal conditions along the hose/tether, which is a probably somewhat
unrealistic limiting case, as heat transfer to and/or from the atmosphere surrounding the tether is
likely to be significant. Although this is a sensible starting approximation for the necessary
calculations, some more extended discussion of its validity (or otherwise) would be warranted.
(Note: the temperature of the atmosphere will range from ca +25 C to -60 C along the length of
the tether, which should probably be mentioned as it may not be known to all potential readers).
Line 20: please explain what PBO stands for when the abbreviation is first used.
John Shepherd (University of Southampton)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140468)
17-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Kuo,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Isothermal Pumping Analysis for High-Altitude
Tethered Balloons") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 09-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
4
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140468)
See Appendix B.
5
label_version_2
RSOS-140468.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Douglas G. Macmartin)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have done an excellent job! My only suggestion is that there are a few places early
in the paper where they should say what they have done: (i) last paragraph of intro might be
good place to tell the reader that the limits of isothermal analysis are discussed in section 5, also
in the first paragraph of section 4, and (ii) end of sections 2.2 and 2.3, should add a sentence
indicating that sensitivity analysis was done (which you did add to section 2.1). Good work!
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140468.R1)
18-May-2015
Dear Dr Kuo:
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140468.R1
entitled "Isothermal Pumping Analysis for High-Altitude Tethered Balloons" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
6
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-May-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
7
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140468.R1)
Thank you very much for this email. We are very pleased that the manuscript has been accepted
for publication, and we have completed the requested changes as per Reviewer 2's comments.
Four sentences have been added at the end of the relevant sections describing the work that has
been done.
Kind regards,
Kirsty Kuo
ppendix A
iew of Isothermal Pumping Analysis for High-Altitude Tethered Balloons
erally I would like to see this work eventually published, but I have a few concerns that would need
e addressed.
t, there is no clear argument for an isothermal assumption, nor sense of how important this is to the
lysis. It is clear that a full heat transfer analysis is beyond the scope of this work (and would depend
design details), but I have no sense of whether the final conclusions are entirely dependent on this
umption or not, even knowing whether heat transfer moves things in the direction of “easier” or
rder”… e.g. for SO2 at temperatures above ambient, friction will heat it, while heat transfer will cool
an one argue whether one of these is negligible compared to the other, and then argue that from
sign of the effect whether it makes things easier or harder, and from the phase plot whether it is
ly to be a small effect? Adiabatic may provide another analytically tractable alternate assumption
t could be compared (and if you were only going to pick one, I’d have picked that, not isothermal); if
’re lucky you might be able to do two analytically tractable cases and argue that these bound the
blem, and the proper treatment of heat flow would put you somewhere in between them.
ond, and somewhat related, but the paper would benefit from some parametric analysis. None of
analysis is so computationally demanding as to preclude this. It is not clear how the results scale
h, for example, the assumption on the total number of balloons. A single point suffices to show that
re exists a point in parameter space for which things are feasible, e.g. for the hydrogen analysis (but
ht to reword to a more general conclusion anyway), but when the conclusion is that something is
blematic at the specific set of parameter values that you picked (e.g. for SO2), then that tells us
hing, since we don’t know if the problem becomes easy at some other point in parameter space.
ailed comments follow:
1. I think some better context is required, e.g. (i) note that this is one of multiple alternatives
considered for climate engineering; perhaps cite the paper from Aurora flight sciences work for
example, and (ii) are there citable sources suggesting this approach for the delivery of lighter-
than-air gases? (I’m partly digging here to figure out whether that is a justifiable application in
its own right, or simply an excuse to make the paper not exclusively about climate engineering.)
2. Page 3, end of first paragraph… trivial and ignorable point, but in principle the increase in
tension forces could be solved with mini-balloons along the length of the hose.
3. Trivial: Not sure about journal preferences, I’d have put everything in kPa rather than bar… and
spell out absolute rather than “abs”
4. Last paragraph of section 2.1, on page 4. This could be worded more generically, and justified
better (is 10% reasonable?) E.g., point out explicitly that fuel cell hydrogen doesn’t dominate
(so clearly not sensitive to the 3kW assumption). Any numbers like those in this paragraph
should be given as examples, with some justification later on that the final conclusions (like
“pumping hydrogen is feasible”) don’t depend strongly on the specific numbers chosen. For
hydrogen example I think that is probably pretty easy to justify, as clearly a smaller balloon or
smaller loss rate or lower altitude will all make things easier.
5. Again, same point in coming up with the examples for SO2. Do the conclusions depend on the
number of balloons or the 13.64 Mt? If it is not feasible at 4 balloons, but feasible at 8 (or with
half the delivered SO2), that matters.
6. Also, I’d state for context an estimate of the radiative forcing from 13.64, or the amount of CO2
it would offset (e.g. a CO2-doubling?)
7. End of first paragraph of section 2.2: these seem like an odd random sampling of side effects,
why not just say that there will be a number of side effects and cite a few papers (like Alan’s
paper, which at least lists a bunch, for all of its flaws). Also, warming of the tropical tropopause
is only a side-effect if you inject in the tropics, so as an example to choose of side effects it isn’t
the best as it would require context to explain that it may or may not be a side effect.
8. Re TiO2, might add for context the “magnified” effect is due to being better back-scatters.
Further down the page you give 10.3 Mt, which is only very slightly less than the number for
SO2… I’m not going to go back and re-read Pope’s paper, but I’m surprised the difference is that
small.
9. Why would TiO2 give a better ability to conduct small-scale testing of the light-scattering effect?
(The scattering characteristics of either don’t require any atmospheric testing, though the
particle formation/coagulation issue might.)
10. Pumping analysis: you might add to the list of heat sources the frictional heating. Conduction
through the pipe wall and convection via the wind are the same thing; from the perspective of
the fluid the heat is added/removed by conduction, while that same heat is then
added/removed from the pipe itself by convection. It would seem to me that (i) the
temperature changes might have profound effects on your conclusions and warrant more
statement than “currently under investigation”, (ii) at the very least the adiabatic case ought to
be analytically tractable, and (iii) some analysis might at least identify which of the heat flow
sources are significant and which aren’t, in order to bound the sign of the effect, and possibly
make an argument from that as to whether it changes your conclusions (or better yet, be able to
bound the result in between two analytically tractable cases if both isothermal and adiabatic are
indeed tractable). As noted earlier, without at least some effort it isn’t clear to me what I can
learn from the paper at all, as I don’t know whether the conclusions hold in reality.
11. Hydrogen pumping analysis… again I would prefer a more generic conclusion, that is, right now
this is worded that “if I make these specific choices then this is feasible”, rather than “for
example, consider these choices to illustrate the behavior; the required pumping pressure does
not become excessive for up to X times this flow rate”. (That is, both doing some parametric
analysis varying mass flow rate and final velocity, and rewording to draw a more general
conclusion rather than a specific one.)
12. Out of curiousity, what is the travel time? (This pertains to estimating heat transfer and
whether adiabatic is a good assumption or not.)
13. Same comments on SO2, should have more parametric analysis. (Does this become much easier
with 40 balloons instead of 4… it isn’t hard to do this type of analysis.)
14. Re SO2, if the inlet pressure is only 2 bar, seems like 400K or 350K would be feasible from Fig 2
(and why does Fig 2 show such a wide range of parameter space if you aren’t using it, all it does
is make it hard to see the part of the parameter space that you do use.)
15. Does the balloon need to support the fluid mass? Doesn’t the inlet pressure support the mass?
16. Same comments on TiO2, once again there are a lot of guessed values for parameters making
this a single-point analysis… e.g. does the required pumping pressure become much more
reasonable with more balloons, or a different maximum fluid velocity or outlet pressure; and
again, would including the actual heat transfer make the required pressure higher or lower?
17. Conclusions: “sub-zero” here is presumably Celcius, should say “temperatures below 0 C”. The
conclusion regarding required pipe size you haven’t actually shown is true, only that it is true for
the particular set of parameters you looked at.
Appendix B
Response to decision letter
The authors would like to thank the editors and the two reviewers for their comments and the time
spent reviewing this paper. We appreciate the feedback provided, and we have endeavoured to
address below each of the points raised.
Reviewer 1:
1. Validity of the isothermal assumption: please see comment #10 below.
2. A statement regarding the variation of ambient air temperature along the length of the tether has
been included, at the beginning of new Section 5.
3. The full name for PBO has been added to the Introduction where PBO is first mentioned.
Reviewer 2:
The concern regarding the isothermal assumption is addressed in comment #10, and comments #5,
13 and 16 address the need for parametric analysis.
Detailed comments
1. A mention of alternative delivery systems for climate engineering has now been included, and the
two main papers (Davidson & the Aurora report) have been cited. There is a patent that has been
granted on the use of the tether for replenishment of lifting gases, and this has also been included.
2. This study is limited to a single balloon, but multiple balloons along the tether length are worthy
of future consideration. We have included a statement about this, and also about the use of multiple
tethers.
3. The pressures have been changed to kPa/MPa, and ‘absolute’ has been spelled out.
4. Further discussion of the 10% loss rate has been included, and a statement about the dominance
of the loss rate over the fuel cell requirements has been included. Unfortunately little published data
on the expected loss rate exists, and we are having to rely here on the experience of those in the
balloon-design industry.
5. We have now included results and discussion for different numbers of balloons (4,8 and 40) and
we have revised the conclusions in light of the limited number of specific cases studied. For the case
of SO2, it makes little difference how many balloons are used, which is somewhat counterintuitive.
6. An estimate of the radiative forcing from a Pinatubo-size eruption and the global mean cooling
effect of one of these eruptions every year has now been added. We have also discussed the effect
on Bond albedo, and how it relates to CO2 concentration.
7. This has been changed as per the reviewer’s suggestion, and the Robock reference has been
added.
8. The increased light scattering of TiO2 has now been included as the reason for its effectiveness.
The difference between the mass of TiO2 and SO2 is small, but we have double-checked it with Pope
and he has confirmed our numbers are correct. The Pope paper listed quantities of 70% H2SO4
aerosol required, so when this is converted to SO2 the difference in quantity reduces.
9. This sentence has been corrected – it is true that there would be no need for small-scale testing of
scattering characteristics. It now reads ‘Other advantages of using TiO2 over SO2 include scope for relatively
small-scale field experiments to study particle properties (equivalent studies for SO2 would require significantly
longer timescales and larger test areas) …’
10. The frictional heating term has now been included, and the conduction and convection terms
have been combined into one process. We have added a new section 5, discussing the limitations of
this isothermal analysis. We have embarked on the adiabatic analysis, and have found that while it is
analytically tractable if the kinetic energy component of the energy equation is ignored (which, by all
indications of the isothermal analysis, is a reasonable thing to do), this requires extensive enthalpy
data for the pure fluids and mixtures. We have not yet been able to obtain this data for the TiO2/N2
mixture, and the available data for SO2 is limited. We feel that a full discussion of the adiabatic case
would require a major rewrite of the paper. (Incidentally, our first draft of this paper included
adiabatic analysis, but internal reviewers found the multiple cases confusing, and suggested that for
a clearer message we focus only on one limiting case.) In the new section 5, we have included some
of the adiabatic results to illustrate the sign and magnitude of the heat flows. We agree that this
analysis is just one simplistic limiting case, and we have endeavoured to show this both in this
section and in the conclusions.
11. As suggested, we have added in a parametric analysis for varying mass flow rate (based on
balloon size and leakage rate) and final velocity. This has shown some interesting characteristics of
the problem, and we have attempted to draw these observations out and explain them. The
concluding paragraph has been reworded to take into account the limits of our study.
12. The travel times have been included as part of the parametric study. We, too, thought this gave
an interesting indication of potential heat transfer.
13. A parametric study of the effect of number of balloons and exit velocity has now been included
for SO2. (See also response #5).
14. Yes, as the inlet pressure for SO2 is relatively low, a reduced temperature would be feasible. We
have now revised the SO2 case for a temperature of 350K. As the temperature is lower, the density
is higher and the required pressure has also increased (although it is still not infeasible) All of the
Figures 1-3 have had their axes tightened to better fit to the parameter space.
15. This question of whether the balloon is needed to support the fluid mass is not at all obvious,
and we have thought at length about this, particularly in relation to the magnitude of the axial forces
in the tether. For a tall vertical column of fluid inside a pipe, the inlet pressure does support the
fluid’s mass, however, to prevent buckling tension is required in the tether. As soon as there is any
deviation from vertical at the tether’s base, more tension will be required in the tether to support
(some of) the fluid’s mass. So the idea that the balloon must lift the tether and the whole fluid mass
gives a conservative result for the size of balloon required.
16. A parametric study for the TiO2 case has now been included, investigating the effect of varying
the phase density, number of balloons and exit velocity.
17. The phrase ‘sub-zero’ has been corrected, and the conclusions have been revised to account only
for the limited range of parameters considered.
Society Open
