State anxiety and emotional face recognition in healthy
volunteers
Angela S. Attwood, Kayleigh E. Easey, Michael N. Dalili, Andrew L. Skinner, Andy Woods,
Lana Crick, Elizabeth Ilett, Ian S. Penton-Voak and Marcus R. Munafò
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160855.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160855
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 May 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160855.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached file (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Kun Guo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I enjoyed reading this clearly-written and interesting MS, designed to investigate the effect of
CO2-induced higher state anxiety on facial expression categorization performance. The research
question is timely and relevant, the three inter-linked experiments are carefully designed, the
methods are sound, the statistics is appropriate for the purpose and the discussion/data
interpretation is reasonable. I believe the findings will contribute to the current debate regarding
the role of anxiety in emotion perception and would be interesting to a broad range of researchers
from different disciplines.
I would recommend the acceptance of this MS subject to a few clarifications:
1. I am struggling to make a link between two measurements (emotion recognition and
interpretation bias). The finding from interpretation bias suggested that higher state anxiety is
associated with increased categorization bias towards anger. If so, then in emotion recognition
testing the hit for angry faces (especially for low-intensity faces in which the expressive cues are
ambiguous) would be higher in CO2 than in air condition. The opposite trend, however, has been
noticed in your study. Could you offer an interpretation for this inconsistent finding from two
measurements?
2. Ln 143: It seems that your stimuli included affective faces with very low expression
intensities (e.g. ~7%, 15% if my calculation is right). With similar morphing procedure, a few
previous studies have reported chance-level categorization accuracy and a categorisation bias for
low-intensity expressive faces (e.g., Gao & Maurer (2010) J Exp Child Psychol 107: 67–86; Guo
(2012) PLoS ONE 7(8): e42585). As these low-intensity images will increase categorization bias
3
(e.g. mistaking other expressions for sad) and affect your chance to reveal the significant impact
of state anxiety on emotion categorization, would it be better to concentrate your testing or
analysis on mid- and high-intensity face images?
3. Confusion matrices are often computed in this line of research to examine the systematic
categorization bias (e.g., associated with emotion intensity or individual traits) in emotion
labelling (e.g. Guo (2012) PLoS ONE 7(8): e42585; Green & Guo (2016) Cognition and Emotion,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02699931.2016.1273200). Maybe the authors could also analyse
whether increased state anxiety leads to the change of categorization bias?
Other minor comments:
1. Ln131: definition of 6AFC?
2. Ln139: please specify the source of face images, any validation for the perceived facial
expressions? and size and colour (e.g. B/W) of the images?
3. Ln146: what was the backward mask, scrambled face images or white noise?
4. Ln150: I assume each face image has been presented twice to reach 180 trials?
5. Ln155-156: I guess you have averaged 20 faces for the morphed expression?
6. Ln322-323: please clarify the rationale of including different presentation times and faces
of different races.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160855)
20th March 2017
Dear Dr Attwood,
The editors assigned to your paper ("State Anxiety and Emotional Face Recognition in Healthy
Volunteers") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11th April 2017). If we
do not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn.
In exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
4
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160855
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Essi Viding
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
see attached file
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
I enjoyed reading this clearly-written and interesting MS, designed to investigate the effect of
CO2-induced higher state anxiety on facial expression categorization performance. The research
question is timely and relevant, the three inter-linked experiments are carefully designed, the
methods are sound, the statistics is appropriate for the purpose and the discussion/data
interpretation is reasonable. I believe the findings will contribute to the current debate regarding
the role of anxiety in emotion perception and would be interesting to a broad range of researchers
from different disciplines.
I would recommend the acceptance of this MS subject to a few clarifications:
1. I am struggling to make a link between two measurements (emotion recognition and
interpretation bias). The finding from interpretation bias suggested that higher state anxiety is
associated with increased categorization bias towards anger. If so, then in emotion recognition
testing the hit for angry faces (especially for low-intensity faces in which the expressive cues are
ambiguous) would be higher in CO2 than in air condition. The opposite trend, however, has been
noticed in your study. Could you offer an interpretation for this inconsistent finding from two
measurements?
2. Ln 143: It seems that your stimuli included affective faces with very low expression
intensities (e.g. ~7%, 15% if my calculation is right). With similar morphing procedure, a few
previous studies have reported chance-level categorization accuracy and a categorisation bias for
low-intensity expressive faces (e.g., Gao & Maurer (2010) J Exp Child Psychol 107: 67–86; Guo
(2012) PLoS ONE 7(8): e42585). As these low-intensity images will increase categorization bias
(e.g. mistaking other expressions for sad) and affect your chance to reveal the significant impact
of state anxiety on emotion categorization, would it be better to concentrate your testing or
analysis on mid- and high-intensity face images?
3. Confusion matrices are often computed in this line of research to examine the systematic
categorization bias (e.g., associated with emotion intensity or individual traits) in emotion
labelling (e.g. Guo (2012) PLoS ONE 7(8): e42585; Green & Guo (2016) Cognition and Emotion,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02699931.2016.1273200). Maybe the authors could also analyse
whether increased state anxiety leads to the change of categorization bias?
6
Other minor comments:
1. Ln131: definition of 6AFC?
2. Ln139: please specify the source of face images, any validation for the perceived facial
expressions? and size and colour (e.g. B/W) of the images?
3. Ln146: what was the backward mask, scrambled face images or white noise?
4. Ln150: I assume each face image has been presented twice to reach 180 trials?
5. Ln155-156: I guess you have averaged 20 faces for the morphed expression?
6. Ln322-323: please clarify the rationale of including different presentation times and faces
of different races.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160855)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160855.R1)
2nd May 2017
Dear Dr Attwood,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "State Anxiety and Emotional Face
Recognition in Healthy Volunteers" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
ROYAL OPEN SCIENCE JOURNAL
S-160855: State anxiety and emotion face recognition in health volunteers.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether state anxiety (induced
siologically by carbon dioxide) has a deleterious impact on the ability to identify emotions in adult
e facial expressions. Support was found for this possibility in two laboratory based studies and one
ine self-report investigation. The authors suggest that their findings have implications for
erstanding the dynamics of anxiety disorders.
I have mixed feelings about this study. On the one hand the authors have tackled a valuable
stion, how does the ability to identify emotion in faces relate to state anxiety, with two detailed and
l controlled laboratory studies and one large scale on line investigation. However, when all is said
done though, I have a number of questions and concerns about their conceptualizations of the
or variables and their findings.
First, I think the abstract needs to be rewritten. I’m not sure why the authors describe their
d study as “observational.” There isn’t any observation in it. It is a self-report on line methodology
to call it observational is misleading. No one is observing and rating the participants. I have a
ewhat similar difficulty with their conclusion of the presence of an “interpretation bias” for anger. A
er look at their methodology shows that anger was only contrasted with happy; a strange test of
. Why was happy, a positive emotion, chosen over any one of the other negative emotions, to be
trasted with anger? There is no conceptual foundation laid for this decision. Lastly, while they have
in a great deal of work to completed the three studies, to conclude that their findings have
lications for the development of anxiety disorders is overstating what they have done and what they
e found. To do that they would have to at least offer conceptual arguments and research support
t their way of inducing state anxiety is similar to the state anxiety that occurs in the real world and
s an integral role in the development and maintenance of anxiety disorders.
e additional concerns:
1. The first two sentences of the introduction need references.
2. The end of the first paragraph in the introduction needs explication and theoretical context. Not
only do they need to say why faces are important they need to let the reader know that facial
expressions are but one of a number of nonverbal communications involved in social
interaction.
3. There are any number of studies that support the idea that it is not simply the number of errors
in identifying emotion but the systematic form these errors make. See for example Judy Hall’s
review of past nonverbal research or the individual studies of Cadesky, Mota and Schachar and
and Walker and Nowicki.
4. I’m not sure there is agreement among clinicians and scientists that “acute” and “state” anxiety
are the same. At the very least they ought to reference this assumption.
5. I would like the authors to spend some time discussing why their way on inducing anxiety (which
is physiological) is equivalent to psychologically induced anxiety. Of if they think it is different,
how is it different.
6. Line 106: I like the reasoning for including anger, but not for including happy.
7. It would be helpful to the reader if the authors wrote out the names of the tests they were using
and gave a better description of the tests with references for them; is there any psychometric
information about the construct validity of the tests they are using?
8. This is very important for me because I think it probably plays a significant role in the experience
of anxiety. What did the authors tell the participants was the purpose of the study and what to
expect? How many people did they interview and how many decided to participate. How were
the participants debriefed? Was there follow-up to see if there were lingering effects of the CO
inducement in the lives of the participants?
9. Line 135: I have a number of questions about the face task in the two laboratory and the one
used in the third study. For instance, why were only male faces used? The reasoning for this
choice was never given. Was there any analyses to see if participants’ gender had any impact on
performance? What was the age range of the male stimuli? It would be helpful if references
were given for previous studies using the face tests used in the studies.
10. What are the “established” techniques for controlling shape and colour?
11. I’m not sure what they mean by “equally spaced intensity leading up to the exemplar?” Is that
the same as making the face’s emotion easier to identify as an emotion? And is the equal
spacing established by some calculus on the part of the test constructor or is it the standardized
or normative result of the responses made by participants?
12. What is the basis for choosing the 150 millisecond presentation time?
13. Line 154: Again why are only male faces being used? And why in this instance are faces allowed
to stay on the screen for an unknown amount of time when in the earlier studies the
presentation time was 150ms. Were the morphed faces presented randomly or in order from
one extreme?
14. I understand the use of various paper and pencil tests in study three but why the Eysenck?
Where does that fit conceptually?
15. In study 3, why give the tests retrospectively rather than pre-post as in the first two studies?
16. Why are participants being paid in dollars in study 3 and not pounds in studies 1 and 2?
17. In study 3 I’m very confused by there being stimuli from different cultures. What is that all
about? And four different presentation times?
18. The authors gathered info on internet participants but don’t report it. How are they similar to
and different from the participants in the first two studies?
19. In the conclusion section, since the authors have brought up the possibility that their results
have implications for anxiety disorders I think they should spend some time discussing exactly
how they theorize trait and state anxiety interact to affect the ability to identify faces and how
that in turn affects the development of anxiety disorders.
Appendix B
Below we list the original comments and describe how they have been addressed. Changes made to the
manuscript have been highlighted.
Reviewer 1:
1. First, I think the abstract needs to be rewritten. I’m not sure why the authors describe their third
study as “observational.” There isn’t any observation in it. It is a self-report on line methodology and to
call it observational is misleading. No one is observing and rating the participants.
The term “observational” has a specific technical meaning in this context, namely that the independent
variable was not manipulated. This is particularly relevant here because in two of our studies the
independent variable was manipulated (i.e., they were experimental designs). We would therefore prefer
to retain this term as we believe we have used it correctly. We have added a clarifying comment that the
independent variable was not manipulated in the observational study and was manipulated in the
experimental study.
2. I have a somewhat similar difficulty with their conclusion of the presence of an “interpretation bias”
for anger. A closer look at their methodology shows that anger was only contrasted with happy; a
strange test of bias. Why was happy, a positive emotion, chosen over any one of the other negative
emotions, to be contrasted with anger?
This is a valid point and one we already refer to in the original manuscript. We only used one continuum
due to time constraints of the inhalation (which we now mention in the discussion). This limits
interpretation as the effects may be due to an increased bias in seeing anger or a decreased bias in
seeing happiness. To clarify this we have amended interpretation of findings in the first paragraph of the
discussion and in the abstract to make it less specific to anger. Without other negative emotions we are
also unable to identify whether the effect is specific to anger or also true of other negative emotions.
However, this point has already been made in the discussion (paragraph 6).
3. While they have put in a great deal of work to completed the three studies, to conclude that their
findings have implications for the development of anxiety disorders is overstating what they have done
and what they have found. To do that they would have to at least offer conceptual arguments and
research support that their way of inducing state anxiety is similar to the state anxiety that occurs in the
real world and plays an integral role in the development and maintenance of anxiety disorders.
CO2-induced hypercapnia has a relatively long history in psychiatry, and has been used to model clinical
anxiety in studies testing anxiolytic drugs. Furthermore, psychological effects are evident and have been
attributed to misinterpretation of the physiological symptoms and to loss of control (Holt & Andrews
1989, Sanderson, Rapee & Barlow, 1989). However, this physiological challenge may lack certain
aspects of some real world anxiogenic situations and we already make this point in the discussion
(paragraph 4). Here, we identify for example that there is no social component and that this may affect
outcomes. To directly address the reviewer’s comment, we have amended our wording to be more
speculative in relation to the implications for anxiety disorders (abstract). We have also expanded the
introduction and included references to work that has validated CO2-induced anxiety as being similar to
clinical anxiety (introduction paragraph 6).
4. The first two sentences of the introduction need references.
References have been added.
5. The end of the first paragraph in the introduction needs explication and theoretical context. Not only
do they need to say why faces are important they need to let the reader know that facial expressions
are but one of a number of nonverbal communications involved in social interaction.
We have expanded the first paragraph as suggested.
6. There are any number of studies that support the idea that it is not simply the number of errors in
identifying emotion but the systematic form these errors make. See for example Judy Hall’s review of
past nonverbal research or the individual studies of Cadesky, Mota and Schachar and Walker and
Nowicki.
This is an interesting and important point. For this reason we included analyses that explored the type of
emotion that was affected by anxiety (i.e., we looked beyond a global effect). We also included two
different measures of processing: sensitivity (6AFC) and bias (2AFC), which enabled us to look at the
nature of differences. We have added text: 1) to the introduction (paragraph 2) that highlights the
importance of this wider analysis in the context of previous findings; and 2) to the statistical analysis
section, highlighting the different measures and emotion-specific analyses were included in part to
investigate systematic differences. To address this further, we also include confusion matrices, which
show categorization biases during air and CO2 inhalations.
7. I’m not sure there is agreement among clinicians and scientists that “acute” and “state” anxiety are
the same. At the very least they ought to reference this assumption.
We thank the reviewer for pointing this out. The use of state anxiety interchangeably with “acute”
anxiety may not be valid clinically. Here we refer to state anxiety and have amended the text
accordingly by removing references to “acute” anxiety.
8. I would like the authors to spend some time discussing why their way on inducing anxiety (which is
physiological) is equivalent to psychologically induced anxiety. Of if they think it is different, how is it
different.
We already discuss this in the introduction and discussion (when interpreting findings), and have
expanded on this in responding to other review comments (e.g., Reviewer 1, point 3). In short, we
compare this method of anxiety induction to social stressors and note that this lacks a social component,
and this needs to be taking into consideration when interpreting the results. Our results are compared to
studies using threat-of-shock procedures, which demonstrate fear specific effects. These comparisons
across procedures are important and future work should continue to utilize these different models as
they all have their own benefits and limitations.
9. Line 106: I like the reasoning for including anger, but not for including happy.
As mentioned in the response to point two, we could only include one 2AFC task due to time constraints.
We were interested in anger processing and we required a second emotion to form our expression
continuum. We opted for happiness as people tend to generally show a bias towards processing
happiness, which would mean we would be unlikely to suffer from ceiling effects of anger that would
mask a condition effect. However, this does have its limitations as we are unable to confirm whether the
same effect would occur for all negative emotions. We do discuss this limitation of single 2AFC testing in
the original paper and further in response to point 2 above.
10. It would be helpful to the reader if the authors wrote out the names of the tests they were using and
gave a better description of the tests with references for them; is there any psychometric information
about the construct validity of the tests they are using?
The full test names are available in the Materials and Measures section of Methods (paragraph 5). All are
well-validated psychometric tests and we include references for more information.
11. This is very important for me because I think it probably plays a significant role in the experience of
anxiety. What did the authors tell the participants was the purpose of the study and what to expect?
How many people did they interview and how many decided to participate. How were the participants
debriefed? Was there follow-up to see if there were lingering effects of the CO inducement in the lives of
the participants?
In order to ensure fully informed consent, participants were not deceived, nor was any information held
back from them. The only exception to this is that participants were not told in which order that they
would receive the inhalations (i.e., 7.5% CO2, medical air), but all were aware that they would receive
both (one followed by the other with washout period between). Participants were informed of the likely
effects of the gas (i.e., breathlessness, anxiety), but were also told that people respond differently and
that they could stop the inhalation at any time. A comprehensive information sheet was sent to
participants prior to enrolment. Participants also completed a telephone screening prior to a session
being booked, at which point they were able to ask any further questions. Numbers on screening and
participation are only available for study two as screening information from study one has now been
destroyed. For study 2, a total of 77 participants were screened with 44 completing the study
(remaining: 19 failed screening, 9 no further contact after telephone screening, 5 withdrew from study).
Participants were debriefed verbally at the end of the session and were able to ask questions. There is a
30 minute recovery phase at end of the session during which participants are monitored and are able to
ask questions. This is a long period to ensure good recovery, but actual effects usually dissipate within a
couple of minutes of termination of the inhalation. The follow-up period is to track any lasting symptoms
for reporting purposes. However, lasting effects are rare. On occasion some people experience a
headache later in the day (participants are told of this in the information sheet). In the interest of
wordcount, we have not made changes to the manuscript as this information is present in the protocol
for study two, which was pre-registered on the Open Science Framework (DOI given in body of
manuscript). However, we would be happy to include this in the text at the Editor’s request.
12. Line 135: I have a number of questions about the face task in the two laboratory and the one used
in the third study. For instance, why were only male faces used? The reasoning for this choice was never
given. Was there any analyses to see if participants’ gender had any impact on performance? What was
the age range of the male stimuli? It would be helpful if references were given for previous studies using
the face tests used in the studies.
Given the limited time available to test during the CO2 challenge, we could not include a representative
stimulus set of all sexes or ethnicities, and the relatively low sample size of such studies precludes
adding varying stimulus sets, which increase noise in responses. Given this, we presented European-
ancestry male stimuli to allow easier comparison with earlier work, which also tends to use European-
ancestry male stimuli. We agree that this is a potential limitation, and hence in our online study we used
stimuli of two sexes and four ethnicities, as detailed below (although we did not find evidence that this
affected outcomes). We now include references to other studies that have used the male stimulus set we
employed.
What are the “established” techniques for controlling shape and colour?
The established computer graphic techniques are detailed in the given reference – Tiddeman et al. (IEEE
computer graphics paper). These methods are very commonly used in psychological studies of face
perception that require digital manipulation of images (the paper has been cited 326 times). In short,
established high fidelity computer image manipulation approaches (e.g. wavelet transforms) are used to
average the colour, texture and shape of groups of faces to produce prototype face images that distil the
facial characteristics common to the group. In this case, exemplar fear and happy facial expressions
were averaged to make prototype fear and happy faces. The differences between these two prototypes
then define an axis of transformation between happy and fear which can be used to produce realistic
faces at any point between happy and fear.
13. I’m not sure what they mean by “equally spaced intensity leading up to the exemplar?” Is that the
same as making the face’s emotion easier to identify as an emotion? And is the equal spacing
established by some calculus on the part of the test constructor or is it the standardized or normative
result of the responses made by participants
Yes, the continuum is a morph sequence in which the emotion visible in the face becomes more obvious.
We have added a figure that clarifies this.
14. What is the basis for choosing the 150 millisecond presentation time?
One proposed mechanism of action of the CO2 challenge is the amygdala acting as part of a
chemosensory system that elicits an anxiety response. The amygdala is also thought to be an important
part of the sub-cortical pathway associated with the salience of emotional stimuli in the environment.
Although evidence for distinct ‘fast’ (subcortical) and ‘slow’ (cortical) emotional processing is not as
robust as it once seemed, we elected to choose a brief presentation time with backward masking to
prevent rumination on the nature of the stimulus, and to predispose participants to use their ‘gut feeling’
in the expectation that this would be more sensitive to the CO2 challenge through amygdala activation.
Presentation time is an important question, however, as some have argued that presentation time may
have an important role to play in anxiety-related emotional processing (e.g., Cooper, R.M., Rowe, A.C. &
Penton-Voak, I.S., 2008). This is why in our large observational study 3 we used four different
presentation times to explicitly investigate the effect of this variable on anxiety/emotion processing
relationship. Although increasing presentation time unsurprisingly increased recognition performance, no
meaningful interactions with anxiety were found.
15. Line 154: Again why are only male faces being used? And why in this instance are faces allowed to
stay on the screen for an unknown amount of time when in the earlier studies the presentation time was
150ms. Were the morphed faces presented randomly or in order from one extreme?
We thank the reviewer for spotting this as this is a typo. The images were presented with exactly the
same presentation characteristics as in the 6AFC task (150ms, backward mask). The prompt query (an
image of a question mark) remained on the screen until the participant responded, not the facial image.
Order of presentation was randomised
16. I understand the use of various paper and pencil tests in study three but why the Eysenck? Where
does that fit conceptually?
We use this test as standard in our CO2 based studies in order to give a representation of our study
sample. Therefore, it was chosen for demographic reporting purposes, and we opted for this specifically
as it is a well-validated test that is commonly used in psychological research.
17. In study 3, why give the tests retrospectively rather than pre-post as in the first two studies?
Unlike studies one and two, study three did not include an anxiety manipulation. Therefore there was
little reason to expect change over time.
18. Why are participants being paid in dollars in study 3 and not pounds in studies 1 and 2?
Study three was an online study. The online platform used has a high proportion of users from the US.
Non-US respondents were reimbursed equivalents in their own currency, which was administered by the
online platform.
19. In study 3 I’m very confused by there being stimuli from different cultures. What is that all about?
And four different presentation times?
We used stimuli of different cultures and both sexes (as specified in the protocol, but not in the
submitted manuscript, for which we apologise). The methods have now been amended to reflect this. To
investigate exactly the sort of concern raised by the reviewer in point 12 (in which the decision to use
European-ancestry male faces alone was questioned). Any effects that did not generalise beyond a
single stimulus set (as employed in studies 1 and 2) would be of limited value; here we added an
additional seven stimulus sets to assess generalizability. Similarly, presentation time was varied as
detailed in point 15 above. Neither stimulus ethnicity nor sex had systematic effects on our results, and
these analyses are not presented here for brevity and clarity. Neither were there clear rater ethnicity by
stimuli ethnicity interaction effects. These data will available for download by interested parties,
however, for further analysis if desired.
20. The authors gathered info on internet participants but don’t report it. How are they similar to and
different from the participants in the first two studies?
Demographic data of participants are presented in the first paragraph of results section of study three.
The overall sample in study three was older than participants in studies one and two. Other common
demographic measures were broadly comparable. Trait anxiety mean and variance was slightly higher in
the study three sample.
21. In the conclusion section, since the authors have brought up the possibility that their results have
implications for anxiety disorders I think they should spend some time discussing exactly how they
theorize trait and state anxiety interact to affect the ability to identify faces and how that in turn affects
the development of anxiety disorders.
We do not directly test the effects of trait anxiety or their interaction with state anxiety, but we do
speculate how they may interact based on data and theory (discussion paragraph 5). However, as
suggested we have expanded our conclusion section to include further explanation of this.
Reviewer 2:
1. I am struggling to make a link between two measurements (emotion recognition and interpretation
bias). The finding from interpretation bias suggested that higher state anxiety is associated with
increased categorization bias towards anger. If so, then in emotion recognition testing the hit for angry
faces (especially for low-intensity faces in which the expressive cues are ambiguous) would be higher in
CO2 than in air condition. The opposite trend, however, has been noticed in your study. Could you offer
an interpretation for this inconsistent finding from two measurements?
This is a good point. However, there are some issues with direct comparisons in this way given that the
nature of stimuli is different. The interpretation task morphs two emotional exemplars and therefore
faces are emotionally expressive throughout the continuum. In contrast, the continua in the recognition
task progress from an emotionally neutral image and therefore ask a slightly different question. While
the low intensity images could be described as ambiguous the nature of this ambiguity is different. That
aside, we do agree that we would expect biases to be associated with high hit rates and high false
alarms rates in a recognition task. We have added a paragraph to the discussion (paragraph 7).
2. Ln 143: It seems that your stimuli included affective faces with very low expression intensities (e.g.
~7%, 15% if my calculation is right). With similar morphing procedure, a few previous studies have
reported chance-level categorization accuracy and a categorisation bias for low-intensity expressive
faces (e.g., Gao & Maurer (2010) J Exp Child Psychol 107: 67–86; Guo (2012) PLoS ONE 7(8): e42585).
As these low-intensity images will increase categorization bias (e.g. mistaking other expressions for sad)
and affect your chance to reveal the significant impact of state anxiety on emotion categorization, would
it be better to concentrate your testing or analysis on mid- and high-intensity face images?
The use of stimuli with very low signal strength is necessary to avoid floor or ceiling effects in
recognition. Our technique allows us to assess differential sensitivity to emotional signals in a pseudo-
signal detection framework (full signal detection analysis is precluded by the 6AFC design). This is the
analysis specified in the pre-registered protocols, and we are not sure of the value of additional
exploratory analysis.
The reviewer is absolutely correct in pointing out the possibility of categorization biases (which are of
course interesting in themselves), but our design allows this to be investigated explicitly by looking at
‘false alarm’ rates for each emotion (e.g., when a ‘sad’ response is made to a non-sad face). We chose
to combine false alarm rates and hits into a sensitivity score (unbiased hit rate, as proposed by Wagner,
1993) for ease of interpretation, but raw false alarm rate will be available for analysis by other
researchers when the open access data is archived. We have added confusion matrices (in response to
comment below) that also allow the reader to see how errors were distributed across emotions during
both inhalations.
3. Confusion matrices are often computed in this line of research to examine the systematic
categorization bias (e.g., associated with emotion intensity or individual traits) in emotion labelling (e.g.
Guo (2012) PLoS ONE 7(8): e42585; Green & Guo (2016) Cognition and Emotion,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02699931.2016.1273200). Maybe the authors could also analyse whether
increased state anxiety leads to the change of categorization bias?
We have now included confusion matrices as suggested. Decreases in correct categorizations were seen
across all emotions as we have already reported; however, the pattern of categorization biases was
similar during the two inhalations.
Minor comments:
• Ln131: definition of 6AFC?
• Ln139: please specify the source of face images, any validation for the perceived facial expressions?
and size and colour (e.g. B/W) of the images?
• Ln146: what was the backward mask, scrambled face images or white noise?
• Ln150: I assume each face image has been presented twice to reach 180 trials?
• Ln155-156: I guess you have averaged 20 faces for the morphed expression?
• Ln322-323: please clarify the rationale of including different presentation times and faces of different
races.
All of these minor comments have been directly addressed in the text, many in response to comments
made previously. We thank you and reviewers for your consideration of this paper.
Society Open
