Manganese molybdate nanoflakes on silicon microchannel
plates as novel nano energetic material
Chi Zhang, Dajun Wu, Liming Shi, Yiping Zhu, Dayuan Xiong, Shaohui Xu, Rong Huang,
Ruijuan Qi, Wenchao Zhang, Lianwei Wang and Paul K. Chu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171229.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171229
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171229.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Manickam Meenakshi)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I have read the manuscript entitled “Manganese molybdate nanoflakes on silicon microchannel
plates as novel nano energetic material” by Paul K Chu et al submitted to RSO Science. This
research into a molybdate structure exhibiting a nano morphology is significant. It can bring new
insights to synthesize nanomaterial in an elegant way. Though MnMoO4 as an electrode for
supercapacitors is a well-researched area but the obtained flakes having unique morphology
could be new and the results are publishable. The work is well presented and the manuscript is
fairly well written with neat characterizations. However, some minor revision is required before
rendering a final decision.
• Maybe a good idea to mention the use of this manganese molybdate nanomaterial
(applications?)
• Some parts of the introduction (in particular to nanocrystalline compounds mid first
paragraph) can be shortened.
• Few of the recent work on binary metal oxides (molybdate) need to be included in the second
paragraph of the introduction. DOI: 10.1021/acsami.7b03836; DOI: 10.1039/c7dt00139h.
• Section 3.1, usually acetates/nitrates will be used as precursors but here manganese chloride
has been used, please justify in a line or two.
• pH was adjusted to a specific value – please specify the value.
• Please mention the target used in XRD for analysis.
• How were the sample prepared for TEM analysis?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper deals with a study on a kind of novel nano energetic materials, manganese molybdate
polycrystalline nanoflakes, which were synthesized on a patterned silicon microchannel plate and
3
characterized by XRD, FE-SEM, TEM, DSC/TGA, etc . The paper includes new and interesting
results, and is suitable for publication in Royal Society Open Science after minor technical and
English revisions. The following comments may be considered during revision.
1. The English has to be polished all over the manuscript, there are some grammar errors. For
example, Page 3, Line 1, “Nano crystalline compounds is known as” should be revised as “Nano
crystalline compounds are known as”. Page 4, Lines 11-12, “is proposed to as substrate” may be
revised as “is proposed to act as a substrate”.
2. As for XRD pattern shown in Fig. 1a, a strong peak at 69° was identified as diffraction peak
due to Si (100) crystallographic plane. This identification may not be correct. The peak should be
indexed to Si (400) diffraction peak.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171229)
26-Oct-2017
Dear Professor Wang,
Title: Manganese Molybdate Nanoflakes on Silicon Microchannel Plates as Novel Nano Energetic
Material
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171229
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
4
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 04-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
James Moore, Publishing Editor
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
5
**********************************************
RSC Subject Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
I have read the manuscript entitled “Manganese molybdate nanoflakes on silicon microchannel
plates as novel nano energetic material” by Paul K Chu et al submitted to RSO Science. This
research into a molybdate structure exhibiting a nano morphology is significant. It can bring new
insights to synthesize nanomaterial in an elegant way. Though MnMoO4 as an electrode for
supercapacitors is a well-researched area but the obtained flakes having unique morphology
could be new and the results are publishable. The work is well presented and the manuscript is
fairly well written with neat characterizations. However, some minor revision is required before
rendering a final decision.
• Maybe a good idea to mention the use of this manganese molybdate nanomaterial
(applications?)
• Some parts of the introduction (in particular to nanocrystalline compounds mid first
paragraph) can be shortened.
• Few of the recent work on binary metal oxides (molybdate) need to be included in the second
paragraph of the introduction. DOI: 10.1021/acsami.7b03836; DOI: 10.1039/c7dt00139h.
• Section 3.1, usually acetates/nitrates will be used as precursors but here manganese chloride
has been used, please justify in a line or two.
• pH was adjusted to a specific value – please specify the value.
• Please mention the target used in XRD for analysis.
• How were the sample prepared for TEM analysis?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The paper deals with a study on a kind of novel nano energetic materials, manganese molybdate
polycrystalline nanoflakes, which were synthesized on a patterned silicon microchannel plate and
characterized by XRD, FE-SEM, TEM, DSC/TGA, etc . The paper includes new and interesting
results, and is suitable for publication in Royal Society Open Science after minor technical and
English revisions. The following comments may be considered during revision.
1. The English has to be polished all over the manuscript, there are some grammar errors. For
example, Page 3, Line 1, “Nano crystalline compounds is known as” should be revised as “Nano
crystalline compounds are known as”. Page 4, Lines 11-12, “is proposed to as substrate” may be
revised as “is proposed to act as a substrate”.
2. As for XRD pattern shown in Fig. 1a, a strong peak at 69° was identified as diffraction peak
due to Si (100) crystallographic plane. This identification may not be correct. The peak should be
indexed to Si (400) diffraction peak.
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171229)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171229.R1)
08-Nov-2017
Dear Professor Wang:
Title: Manganese Molybdate Nanoflakes on Silicon Microchannel Plates as Novel Nano Energetic
Material
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171229.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
Appendix A
Dear Editor and Referee,
Paper title: Manganese molybdate nanoflakes on silicon microchannel plates
as novel nano energetic material
Reference number: RSOS-171229
Thank you for your letter and for the referee’s comments concerning our manuscript
entitled “Manganese molybdate nanoflakes on silicon microchannel plates as novel
nano energetic material” (ID: RSOS-171229). The comments concerning several
characterizations, detailed discussion and some English expressions of our manuscript
are valuable and helpful for revising and improving our paper, as well as the
important significance guiding to our researches. Thank you again for your rigorous
and meticulous work.
We have studied the comments carefully and have made adjustment and correction
that to meet the requirements of the expert with positive response. Revised portion are
marked in green background in the paper.
Other corrections as well as the responds to the referee’s comments in the paper are as
following:
Referee: 1
Response to comment:
1. Maybe a good idea to mention the use of this manganese molybdate
nanomaterial (applications?)
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1. We think twice about the
mistakes in the abstract. It is indeed a good idea to mention the use of this manganese
1
molybdate nanomaterial and the mention parts are marked in green background in
the paper. Currently, since both manganate-oxides and molybdate-oxides materials
are common MIC materials, the nanocrystalline of manganese molybdate is proposed
in an application in the energetic material. Combined with Al as fuel, MnMoO4
nanocrystalline is the oxidizer of thermite materials.
2. Some parts of the introduction (in particular to nanocrystalline compounds
mid first paragraph) can be shortened.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1. We think twice about the
comments of cutting down the introduction. Some following parts are shortened. In
particular, the nano energetic materials have dramatical improvement of the energy
release, the reliability in initiation, detonation velocity and charge density. Additional
it also causes the decrease of the explosion critical radius. Nanocrystalline compounds
is known as metastable intermolecular composites (MIC) in the class of thermite
materials, which is pyrotechnic composition of metal powder fuel and oxidizer.
3. Few of the recent work on binary metal oxides (molybdate) need to be
included in the second paragraph of the introduction. DOI:
10.1021/acsami.7b03836; DOI: 10.1039/c7dt00139h.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1. We think twice about the
comments of recent works on binary metal oxides. It is very important to quoting
these good recent reports. So we add the following parts which are marked in green
background in the paper. Minakshi et al. synthesized nanoscale ternary molybdate
(Mn0.33Nio0.33Co0.33MoO4) using biopolymer as a precursor to improve the energy
storage performance. Watcharatharapong et al. prepared manganese molybdate
rods with a length of 10 µm.
2
4. Section 3.1, usually acetates/nitrates will be used as precursors but here
manganese chloride has been used, please justify in a line or two.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1. We think twice about the
comments of the precursors. According to ref 1, the Ni adhesion film is prepared using
nickel chloride and ammonium chloride. Manganese chloride is adopted to reduce the
impurity ion.
5. pH was adjusted to a specific value – please specify the value.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1. We think twice about the
comments of the pH value. The revised parts are marked in green background in the
paper. The (NH4)6Mo7O24 solution was added slowly to the MnCl2 solution under
stirring to form a homogeneous solution and the pH was adjusted to about 7 by an
NH3 solution.2
6. Please mention the target used in XRD for analysis.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1. We think twice about the
comments of the XRD. The revised parts are marked in green background in the
paper. To analyses the phase structure of the sample, the XRD measurement is
conducted.
7. How were the sample prepared for TEM analysis?
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 1.We think twice about the
comments of the sentence. I’m sorry not to describe clearly and the revises are
marked in green background in the paper. The sample with the crystallites shown in
Fig.3a is prepared by ultrasonic in ethanol for a sufficiently long time to make sure
3
the crystallites are detached from the surface. And the nanoflakes sample shown in
Fig. 3b is separated centrifugally from the fragments after etching in the KOH
solution.
Special thanks to you for your good comments.
4
Referee: 2
Response to comment:
1. The English has to be polished all over the manuscript, there are some
grammar errors. For example, Page 3, Line 1, “Nano crystalline compounds is
known as” should be revised as “Nano crystalline compounds are known as”.
Page 4, Lines 11-12, “is proposed to as substrate” may be revised as “is proposed
to act as a substrate”.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 2.We think twice about the
comments of grammar errors. I’m sorry for these mistakes, and I look over all the
paper to polish the English. The revises are marked green background in the paper.
Nanocrystalline compounds are known as metastable intermolecular composites (MIC)
in the class of thermite materials, which are pyrotechnic compositions of metal
powder fuels and oxidizers. Hence in this study, a patterned 3D substrate, silicon
microchannel plate, is proposed to act as a substrate due to larger aspect ratio and
better orderliness than Ni foam. Si MCP is arranged with large aspect ratio lattices
with the length of 5 µm and the depth of 300 µm.
2. As for XRD pattern shown in Fig. 1a, a strong peak at 69° was identified as
diffraction peak due to Si (100) crystallographic plane. This identification may
not be correct. The peak should be indexed to Si (400) diffraction peak.
Response: We appreciate the comments by Referee: 2.We think twice about the
comments of XRD errors. I’m sorry for the mistake. The strong peak at 69° is indexed
to Si (100) diffraction peak. The revises are marked green background in the paper. At
the same time, the pattern also presents three Ni peaks: (111) at 44°, (201) at 52°, and
5
(222) at 76° and one strong Si peak: (400) at 69°. (Ni: JCPD card 70-0989 and Si:
JCPD card77-2109). And the Figure is changed as follow.
Special thanks to you for your good comments.
6
Corresponding changes after careful consideration:
1. The important change in this article is the line 42-55 of page 2, we changed
the “With the rapid development of nanoscience and nanotechnology, the
morphology is one of the important factors for the sensitivity of energetic
materials.5 In particular, when the material is on the nanometer scale, its
physical/chemical performance and the surface properties change
remarkably. It has a dramatical improvement of the energy release, the
reliability in initiation, detonation velocity and charge density.
Nanocrystallization of energetic materials also causes the decrease of the
explosion critical radius.” to “In particular, the nano energetic materials
have dramatical improvement of the energy release, the reliability in
initiation, detonation velocity and charge density. Additional it also causes
the decrease of the explosion critical radius.”.
2. The important change in this article is the line 4-10 of page 3, we changed
the “Nanocrystalline compounds is known as metastable intermolecular
composites (MIC) in the class of thermite materials. Thermite is pyrotechnic
composition of metal powder fuel and oxidizer.” to “Nanocrystalline
compounds are known as metastable intermolecular composites (MIC) in the
class of thermite materials, which are pyrotechnic compositions of metal
powder fuels and oxidizers.”
3. The important change in this article is the line 51 in page 3, we added the
“Minakshi et al. synthesized nanoscale ternary molybdate
(Mn0.33Nio0.33Co0.33MoO4) using biopolymer as a precursor to improve the
energy storage performance.” .
7
4. The important change in this article is the line 52-58 in page 3, we changed
“Currently, an application in the energetic material of nanocrystalline of
manganese molybdate is proposed since both manganate-oxides and
molybdate-oxides materials are common MIC materials.” to “Currently,
since both manganate-oxides and molybdate-oxides materials are common
MIC materials, the nanocrystalline of manganese molybdate is proposed in
an application in the energetic material. Combined with Al as fuel, MnMoO4
nanocrystalline is the oxidizer of thermite materials.”
5. The important change in this article is the line 14 in page 4, we added the
“Watcharatharapong et al. prepared manganese molybdate rods with a
length of 10 µm.” .
6. The important change in Fig 1. We changed the figure as follow.
The manuscript has been resubmitted to your journal. We are looking
forward to your positive response.
Sincerely,
Lianwei Wang for all authors
8
References
1. D. Yuan, P. Ci, F. Tian, J. Shi, S. Xu, P. Xin, L. Wang and P. K. Chu, J.
Micro/Nanolithogr. MEMS MOEMS, 2009, 8, 033012-033012-033017.
2. Y. Ding, Y. Wan, Y.-L. Min, W. Zhang and S.-H. Yu, Inorg. Chem., 2008, 47,
7813-7823 %@ 0020-1669.
9
Society Open
