Influenza A virus: sampling of the unique shorebird habitat
at Delaware Bay, USA
Rebecca L. Poulson, Page M. Luttrell, Morgan J. Slusher, Benjamin R. Wilcox, Lawrence
J. Niles, Amanda D. Dey, Roy D. Berghaus, Scott Krauss, Robert G. Webster and David E.
Stallknecht
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171420.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171420
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 13 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 17 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171420.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The Delaware Bay is an interesting and famous site for IAV epidemiology, where scores of Arctic
shorebirds stopover during spring migration to feast and refuel on horseshoe crab eggs. Contrary
to other sites where IAV in shorebirds have been investigated, this site gives rise to repeated
annual outbreaks of IAV in staging birds and it has been speculated that certain characteristics of
the site (ecology plus physical environment) contribute to this pattern. The manuscript by
Poulson et al. investigates how IAV can be maintained in the beach environment, and make a
very nice combination of observations, field sample collections and experimental testing of virus
survival in sand and water microcosms. I really like this approach where field observations are
put to test in a controlled experiment with biological relevance. Well done!
Generally, it is a well written paper with a good structure and clear thoughts; hence, my
comments are fairly minor and mostly relate to things that the authors could make clearer for the
reader.
My first comment relates to sand sampling methodology. If I understand the described methods
right, sampling sites are very close to each other – at least for the Kimbles Beach in 2012 where
transects were separated by only 1.5 m (it is less clear how close sampling points were for the
previous seasons/site). What was the rational for this? A potential concern is that if hosts infected
with IAV (or similarly uninfected) show an aggregative distribution this could affect your data on
how common/rare IAV are in different sites and zones. For example, could the 17 H13N6 viruses
from one of the sampling sites have resulted from a flock of infected gulls, rather than be an
indication of widespread infection of this subtype in shorebirds? Maybe this is not a big issue, but
at least I would like the authors to make the sampling description in the material and method
section at bit clearer – and potentially briefly discuss this also in the discussion.
My second comment relates to statistics and replication. In this study, the authors compare the
effects of pH and treatment (sand vs water) over time on survival for three different viruses,
expressed either as viral titers or Ct-values using linear mixed models. The results look
convincing and biologically relevant, but I just want to know if I have understood it right and
that the test meets assumptions. I am not a statistics wizard, so my comment may be moot. I was
just concerned that response variable(s) is logarithmic, and that there are no replicates either in
the measurement (Ct-value and titer) or in the treatment (i.e. one tube per virus/treatment/pH)
and that some data is missing (NT, ND in table 2). Is the data compatible with the linear mixed
model, or should other tests be applied?
My third comment relates to the sand treatment. It wasn’t really clear to me whether the sand
used in the experiment was completely dry or if it contained water. I assume it was dry, as it had
been stored for a long time. This has some potential for the biological relevance, as I assume that
sand in the tidal zone will retain quite a lot of water, and that the ability to virus containing-water
to move laterally is lower in such a medium compared to a dry medium. Did you test this also? It
would be worth doing, or at least discuss in the discussion.
And then some minor-minor comments:
Line 32. Word choice “enhance”. Consider use promote, enable or sustain.
Line 43-46. It is true that dabbling ducks are surface feeders, but this statement is perhaps a bit
too simplistic. Dabbling ducks differ in feeding modes between species as well as in diet choice
3
during the year, and will include both skimming of surface water, grazing of underwater
vegetation, predation of invertebrates as well as grazing on land.
Line 65-73. Similar for turnstones, these birds utilize an array of different foraging techniques,
from pecking, turning stones, routing seaweed to probing. At Delaware Bay, I assume that
probing may be more common than in other areas if they go crab eggs. Anyway, I suggest to
rephrase slightly to make clear to the reader that it is not only a probing shorebird.
Line 245. Take away the word unique.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171420)
10-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Poulson
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171420 entitled
"Influenza A Virus: Sampling of the Unique Shorebird Habitat at Delaware Bay, USA" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171420
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
4
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-Oct-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
5
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Please address all issues raised but particularly the questions relating to the statistical
robustness/replication of the data.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The Delaware Bay is an interesting and famous site for IAV epidemiology, where scores of Arctic
shorebirds stopover during spring migration to feast and refuel on horseshoe crab eggs. Contrary
to other sites where IAV in shorebirds have been investigated, this site gives rise to repeated
annual outbreaks of IAV in staging birds and it has been speculated that certain characteristics of
the site (ecology plus physical environment) contribute to this pattern. The manuscript by
Poulson et al. investigates how IAV can be maintained in the beach environment, and make a
very nice combination of observations, field sample collections and experimental testing of virus
survival in sand and water microcosms. I really like this approach where field observations are
put to test in a controlled experiment with biological relevance. Well done!
Generally, it is a well written paper with a good structure and clear thoughts; hence, my
comments are fairly minor and mostly relate to things that the authors could make clearer for the
reader.
My first comment relates to sand sampling methodology. If I understand the described methods
right, sampling sites are very close to each other – at least for the Kimbles Beach in 2012 where
transects were separated by only 1.5 m (it is less clear how close sampling points were for the
previous seasons/site). What was the rational for this? A potential concern is that if hosts infected
with IAV (or similarly uninfected) show an aggregative distribution this could affect your data on
how common/rare IAV are in different sites and zones. For example, could the 17 H13N6 viruses
from one of the sampling sites have resulted from a flock of infected gulls, rather than be an
indication of widespread infection of this subtype in shorebirds? Maybe this is not a big issue, but
6
at least I would like the authors to make the sampling description in the material and method
section at bit clearer – and potentially briefly discuss this also in the discussion.
My second comment relates to statistics and replication. In this study, the authors compare the
effects of pH and treatment (sand vs water) over time on survival for three different viruses,
expressed either as viral titers or Ct-values using linear mixed models. The results look
convincing and biologically relevant, but I just want to know if I have understood it right and
that the test meets assumptions. I am not a statistics wizard, so my comment may be moot. I was
just concerned that response variable(s) is logarithmic, and that there are no replicates either in
the measurement (Ct-value and titer) or in the treatment (i.e. one tube per virus/treatment/pH)
and that some data is missing (NT, ND in table 2). Is the data compatible with the linear mixed
model, or should other tests be applied?
My third comment relates to the sand treatment. It wasn’t really clear to me whether the sand
used in the experiment was completely dry or if it contained water. I assume it was dry, as it had
been stored for a long time. This has some potential for the biological relevance, as I assume that
sand in the tidal zone will retain quite a lot of water, and that the ability to virus containing-water
to move laterally is lower in such a medium compared to a dry medium. Did you test this also? It
would be worth doing, or at least discuss in the discussion.
And then some minor-minor comments:
Line 32. Word choice “enhance”. Consider use promote, enable or sustain.
Line 43-46. It is true that dabbling ducks are surface feeders, but this statement is perhaps a bit
too simplistic. Dabbling ducks differ in feeding modes between species as well as in diet choice
during the year, and will include both skimming of surface water, grazing of underwater
vegetation, predation of invertebrates as well as grazing on land.
Line 65-73. Similar for turnstones, these birds utilize an array of different foraging techniques,
from pecking, turning stones, routing seaweed to probing. At Delaware Bay, I assume that
probing may be more common than in other areas if they go crab eggs. Anyway, I suggest to
rephrase slightly to make clear to the reader that it is not only a probing shorebird.
Line 245. Take away the word unique.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171420)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171420.R1)
17-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Poulson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Influenza A Virus: Sampling of the
Unique Shorebird Habitat at Delaware Bay, USA" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
7
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
ober 12, 2017
e Power
orial Coordinator
al Society Open Science
r Dr. Power
se consider this revised manuscript entitled “Influenza A Virus: Sampling of the Unique Shorebird
itat at Delaware Bay, USA” (RSOS-171420) for publication in Royal Society Open Science. We
reciate the excellent comments, edits, and suggestions by the anonymous reviewer and handling
ors. Suggested changes/additions have been made to the end statements, including the inclusion of
itutional, state, and federal permit numbers for work involving animals. Further, data has been made
essible in Dryad: doi:10.5061/dryad.69v95. Finally, the figure legend for figure 1 has been modified
htly to include the program used to generate it (Map was generated with QGIS v2.18.11 using
ural Earth). Thank you for considering this revised work for publication!
ow are my responses (red indented text) to editorial comments (copy and pasted below, left
ified).
iewer comments (only those that require changes or comment are copy and pasted below)
Sand sampling methodology: If I understand the described methods right, sampling sites are very
e to each other – at least for the Kimbles Beach in 2012 where transects were separated by only
m (it is less clear how close sampling points were for the previous seasons/site). What was the
onal for this? A potential concern is that if hosts infected with IAV (or similarly uninfected) show
aggregative distribution this could affect your data on how common/rare IAV are in different sites
zones. For example, could the 17 H13N6 viruses from one of the sampling sites have resulted
m a flock of infected gulls, rather than be an indication of widespread infection of this subtype in
rebirds? Maybe this is not a big issue, but at least I would like the authors to make the sampling
cription in the material and method section at bit clearer – and potentially briefly discuss this also
he discussion.
We agree that the sand sampling methods, as initially written, were not very clear, nor detailed.
We have revised this section (now, lines 88-94) to include more dimensions (including spacing of
samples from one another) for the 2010, 2011, and 2012 (Pierces Point) sand sampling events.
The rationale behind the spacing of samples was based largely on our assumption that recovery
of virus directly from the environment at this stopover site would be difficult. We wanted to
sample at distinct intervals and locations in a concise and methodical way to maximize our
chance at recovering IAV.
We further agree with the reviewer that an aggregate of infected (or not) shorebirds or gulls
could affect interpretation of data as related to abundance of IAV at these locations. As s/he
suggested, the isolation of 17 H13N6 viruses in 2010 is most likely an artifact of a group of
infected gulls at these transect sites. As such, we have avoided making any predictions related
to subtype diversity, IAV prevalence, etc. from these environmental isolations. Instead, our goal
here was simply to show that with enough sampling, IAV can be isolated from the DE Bay
environment, and further, that IAV can be isolated at several centimeters depth from the
surface—of potential relevance as a transmission mechanism of IAV for shorebirds that feed by
probing substrate. To our knowledge, this is the first description of the isolation of IAV at sub-
surface levels of substrate at DE Bay. We have revisited sampling methodology in the
discussion, as suggested, and incorporated a sentence related to the limitations of this method
of transect sampling (lines 268-273): “Environmental samples were taken in close proximity to
one another, and it is possible that viral recovery could be influenced by an aggregation of
infected hosts, which was likely the case with the isolation of 17 H13N6 viruses in 2010. Because
of such potential sampling artifacts, it is not prudent to extrapolate to estimates of IAV
prevalence or subtype diversity from this environmental data.”
Statistics and replication: In this study, the authors compare the effects of pH and treatment (sand
ater) over time on survival for three different viruses, expressed either as viral titers or Ct-values
g linear mixed models. The results look convincing and biologically relevant, but I just want to
w if I have understood it right and that the test meets assumptions. I am not a statistics wizard, so
comment may be moot. I was just concerned that response variable(s) is logarithmic, and that
re are no replicates either in the measurement (Ct-value and titer) or in the treatment (i.e. one
e per virus/treatment/pH) and that some data is missing (NT, ND in table 2). Is the data compatible
h the linear mixed model, or should other tests be applied? (response also requested from
ociate Editor)
We thank the reviewer for the opportunity to clarify the details of the statistical analysis. The
reviewer is correct that the response variables are logarithmic in nature, which in this case is the
most appropriate form of these variables for statistical analysis. In terms of replication, the
three different viruses constitute independent biological replicates, so for most of the treatment
and pH combinations there were n = 3 replicates at each time point. Virus was included in the
models as a random effect to account for the within-subjects nature of the treatment, pH, and
dpi variables. With respect to missing data at some of the individual time points, it may not
have been clear in our original description of the models that day post-inoculation was being
included as a continuous predictor. This helps to alleviate problems with missing observations
at individual time points as the observed values at other time points (and for other viruses) can
still be used to estimate the treatment effects.
We have added a sentence to the statistical analysis section to clarify how the normality and
homogeneity of variance assumptions were evaluated for these models, and we have also
attempted to clarify that day post inoculation was included as a continuous predictor (lines 179-
184). In our opinion, using a linear mixed model is the most appropriate way to analyze these
data. We did also consider using generalized estimating equations (GEE) linear models, which
are sometimes considered to be more robust than linear mixed models, but the statistical
conclusions were the same. Considering that GEE models may be less accurate with small
numbers of ‘clusters’ (i.e., viruses), we felt that using a linear mixed model approach would be
more appropriate on a theoretical basis.
Sand treatment: It wasn’t really clear to me whether the sand used in the experiment was
pletely dry or if it contained water. I assume it was dry, as it had been stored for a long time. This
some potential for the biological relevance, as I assume that sand in the tidal zone will retain
e a lot of water, and that the ability to virus containing-water to move laterally is lower in such a
dium compared to a dry medium. Did you test this also? It would be worth doing, or at least
uss in the discussion.
Yes, the reviewer is correct in assuming the stored sand was dry (the word “dry” has been added
to line 151 in the methods) and was not treated nor characterized (biologically, chemically, etc)
in any way prior to beginning the laboratory trial. We agree that the characteristics of sand and
water along the tidal zone would be very different than this artificial laboratory microcosm. The
laboratory sand was fully saturated with water upon addition of virus, but not beforehand. This
comment gets at the heart of the difficulty of this laboratory trial, and why we tried to keep it
simple. There are many unknown variables, beyond the scope of this study, that would make for
interesting follow-up work as related to the movement/retention of virus in substrate: effect of
grain size of sand, the role of biotic components in a natural system, virus binding to substrate,
electrostatic relationships, etc. We tried to cover the role of some of these mechanisms in the
discussion, but agree that the biological relevance of our laboratory persistence work needs to
be taken with, well, a grain of sand!
nor” comments:
Line 32. Word choice “enhance”. Consider use promote, enable or sustain.
The word “enhance” has been replaced by “enable”.
Line 43-46. It is true that dabbling ducks are surface feeders, but this statement is perhaps a
bit too simplistic. Dabbling ducks differ in feeding modes between species as well as in diet
choice during the year, and will include both skimming of surface water, grazing of
underwater vegetation, predation of invertebrates as well as grazing on land.
Thank you for this comment, and we agree that there are differences related to feeding
habits amongst the Anatinae. We have revised this sentence slightly so as not to imply
that feeding on surface waters is the only mode of foraging amongst this diverse group
of ducks. The sentence (now lines 43-47) now reads: “Dabbling ducks, which perpetuate
most hemagglutinin (HA) subtypes [1-3], employ a range of feeding techniques that
include skimming surface waters and grazing underwater vegetation; when in close
contact/high densities such as might be found on migratory staging areas, such feeding
behaviors could lead to enhanced transmission of IAV via the fecal-oral route [4].”
Line 65-73. Similar for turnstones, these birds utilize an array of different foraging techniques,
from pecking, turning stones, routing seaweed to probing. At Delaware Bay, I assume that
probing may be more common than in other areas if they go crab eggs. Anyway, I suggest to
rephrase slightly to make clear to the reader that it is not only a probing shorebird.
We agree with this comment as well. This sentence [now, lines 66-68] has been
rewritten to incorporate some of the other strategies utilized by foraging Ruddy
Turnstones, and now reads: “In addition to pecking and turning over stones, Ruddy
Turnstones also utilize a foraging behavior that involves probing several centimeters
into sand and cobble [14] in an effort to locate invertebrates, and when available,
buried horseshoe crab eggs [13].”
Line 245. Take away the word unique.
This word has been removed
Society Open
