Detection and perception of generic host volatiles by
mosquitoes modulate host preference: context dependence
of (R)-1-octen-3-ol
Shahid Majeed, Sharon Rose Hill, Göran Birgersson and Rickard Ignell
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160467.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160467
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 June 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 October 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160467.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jonathan Bohbot)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
NA
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attached file (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Wolfgang Mukubana)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The information provided is adequate and clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Majeed et al is nicely and carefully written. In terms of methods I wonder if
there would have been a better way of collecting head space samples from the cow much the
same as it was done for humans and chicken? Also, the sample collection time varies between
humans, chicken and cattle. Are the samples comparable? I'd be happy to see a comment about
this somewhere in the manuscript. That aside I find the results and interpretations thereof
convincing.
Note that Mshinda H, Mukabana WR and Moore SJ have been (erroneously) omitted from
reference # 15. These names should be added.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160467)
02-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Ignell,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Detection and perception of generic host volatiles by
mosquitoes modulate host preference II. Context dependence of (R)-1-octen-3-ol") have now
received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with
the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 25-Sep-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160467
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see attached file
5
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript by Majeed et al is nicely and carefully written. In terms of methods I wonder if
there would have been a better way of collecting head space samples from the cow much the
same as it was done for humans and chicken? Also, the sample collection time varies between
humans, chicken and cattle. Are the samples comparable? I'd be happy to see a comment about
this somewhere in the manuscript. That aside I find the results and interpretations thereof
convincing.
Note that Mshinda H, Mukabana WR and Moore SJ have been (erroneously) omitted from
reference # 15. These names should be added.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160467)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160467.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jonathan Bohbot)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
All clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
No comments
6
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Wolfgang Mukubana)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
NOT APPLICABLE
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
I have read through the entire copy of the revised manuscript checking to see the authors'
responses to reviewer comments. I am happy to report that all concerns related to my review
report have been adequately and satisfactorily addressed. I recommend publication of the revised
manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160467.R1)
10-Oct-2016
Dear Dr Ignell,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Detection and perception of generic
host volatiles by mosquitoes modulate host preference: Context dependence of (R)-1-octen-3-ol" is
now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
7
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
alice.power@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
No comments
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I have read through the entire copy of the revised manuscript checking to see the authors'
responses to reviewer comments. I am happy to report that all concerns related to my review
report have been adequately and satisfactorily addressed. I recommend publication of the revised
manuscript.
Comments to the authors
Majeed et al. examine (i) the role of R-octenol and (ii) host blends on female mosquito
behavior in the context of host-seeking. Using a landing bioassay, they conclude that
mosquito exhibit host-preferences and that natural release of octenol elicit host-dependent
attraction or avoidance. The authors acknowledge that these questions have been
explored in earlier reports and that the novelty of this study resides in the amount (natural
emission levels) of octenol they used. Indeed, responses of octenol receptor neurons have
been previously documented in all three species (Grant & O’Connell, 1996; Syed & Leal,
2007; Lu et al., 2007; Cook et al., 2011; Grant et al., 2011; Bohbot et al., 2013). It has
also been shown that octenol elicit different behaviors from different mosquito species
(Kline et al., 1990, 1991; Kemme et al., 1993; Becker et al., 1995; Kline et al., 2007,
Takken & Verhulst, 2013).
Nonetheless, I found this study particularly interesting as it gathers all these separate
elements into one cohesive study, albeit with issues discussed below. I found the GC-
SSR data very informative. Although it is generally accepted that birds do not release
octenol, I have failed to find reports on ornithophilic emanations. This “negative” result
(Fig. 1a, bottom trace) is important to report.
Comments on the results
Odorant profiles, Figure 1a
The responses shown are stated to be from GC-SSR. However, based on the high AP
frequency and by comparing with Figure 1b, such high frequency seems to be elicited by
higher octenol concentrations (10 times higher) than those shown in Fig. 1a. This figure
and the related descriptions in the text need to be clarified.
SSR, Fig. 1b
1. I am not convinced that mosquitoes can detect natural amounts of octenol based on the
SSR data presented here. Are the responses elicited from 0.01 ng and 1 ng (natural
release rate) statistically different from 0.001ng or 0.01 ng? I did not find any reference
to this issue in the manuscript. I apologize in advance if I missed it. If it is indeed
missing, this information should be included in a revised manuscript. If the responses in
the “white panel” are not statistically different from the lower responses, it will indicate
that mosquitoes do not detect natural level of octenol. In such a case, the premises of the
study are in jeopardy. Please clarify.
2. Please use “(R)-octenol (ng)” instead of “Dose (ng)” in the x-axis legend.
3. The functional competence of olfactory neurons is age-dependent (Grant and
O’Connell, 2007; Davis, 1984; Bohbot et al., 2013). The variability in the sensitivity (10
& 100 ng doses) of the receptor neurons may participate to the observed difference. In
other words, this difference in sensitivity may be caused by physiological differences
rather than being species specific. It would have been preferable to work with mosquitoes
of the same age (e.g., 6 day-old). I recommend discussing this potential caveat in the
discussion section.
Landing bioassay, Fig. 1c
1. This bioassay can measure different degrees of attraction. However, this assay cannot
measure avoidance (line 80) but may suggest it.
2. Although statistically significant (5% level), the reported behavioral effects are minor.
Nonetheless, they are consistent with previous reports and these results present the
benefit of establishing the host spectrum for each of the strains used in this study.
3. It would have been desirable to show the effect of a human extract supplemented with
human equivalent octenol. The implications of such results would be interesting either
way.
Additional comments
Page 2, line 26
I found the term “generic” counterintuitive as it evokes non-specific cues. The “generic”
cue R-octenol is assumed to mediate host discrimination (e.g., human vs chicken) and is
detected by highly selective and sensitive olfactory mechanisms. I assume the authors
meant that R-octenol is released by a variety of mammals and as such, it is not species-
specific cue (line 240). I recommend the authors define this term in the background
section if they want to use this term later on in the text.
Page 3, line 50-53
The authors state: “Natural selection on the malaria vectors, Anopheles gambiae sensu
lato, and the arbovirus vectors, Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus, has, however,
been shown to favour a restricted host breadth [3], indicating a cost to maintaining
plasticity [1].”
Lyimo et al. (2009) bring up an apparent paradox, that the selection for specialization and
generalism is context dependent, each with benefits and costs. When the favorable host
species are dominant (high chances of encounters), the cost for remaining a generalist
may be higher than the cost for specializing. This is a challenging question and I did not
read in their study any evidence supporting or rejecting this idea. I recommend that the
authors balance their portrait of the evolutionary background information and theories
before stating their own hypothesis (line 53-55). The closing statement of the
introduction (Page 3, line 77 & 80) partially addresses the hypothesis.
Page 3, line 53-55
I was expecting to see the authors test this hypothesis, i.e., that the cost associated with
specialization is minimized through the use of generic cues. Instead the authors explored
the effect of octenol in different host contexts (line 76- & 77).
Page 3, line 60
Please review this sentence (“up wind” is oddly placed in this sentence).
Page 3, line 76
Does R-octenol “shape” odor perception or does it elicit different context-dependent
behaviors?
Page 3, line 77
This statement describes a general pattern from the study of one single odorant: “We
demonstrate that individual host compounds are interpreted…” Please rephrase this
statement to reflect the singularity of their results. By itself, this data is informative
enough.
Page 8, line 226-229
Please soften this statement. While the data reported here support their argument, the
claim has not been demonstrated in this study (there is no qPCR or RNA-seq data shown
here).
Reviewer 1
Comments to the authors
Majeed et al. examine (i) the role of R-octenol and (ii) host blends on female mosquito
behavior in the context of host-seeking. Using a landing bioassay, they conclude that
mosquito exhibit host-preferences and that natural release of octenol elicit host-dependent
attraction or avoidance. The authors acknowledge that these questions have been explored in
earlier reports and that the novelty of this study resides in the amount (natural emission
evels) of octenol they used. Indeed, responses of octenol receptor neurons have been
previously documented in all three species (Grant & O’Connell, 1996; Syed & Leal, 2007; Lu
et al., 2007; Cook et al., 2011; Grant et al., 2011; Bohbot et al., 2013). It has also been shown
hat octenol elicit different behaviors from different mosquito species (Kline et al., 1990,
1991; Kemme et al., 1993; Becker et al., 1995; Kline et al., 2007, Takken & Verhulst, 2013).
Nonetheless, I found this study particularly interesting as it gathers all these separate elements
nto one cohesive study, albeit with issues discussed below. I found the GCSSR data very
nformative.
We thank the reviewer for pointing out that this is one of our important findings.
Although it is generally accepted that birds do not release octenol, I have failed to find reports
on ornithophilic emanations. This “negative” result (Fig. 1a, bottom trace) is important to
eport.
We have now added a sentence (with references) in the Discussion to more clearly report on
his “negative” result.
“The peripheral olfactory system is conserved across species and is detecting (R)-1-octen-3-ol
within the ecologically relevant release rates of the compound by potential mammalian hosts.
The fact that (R)-1-octen-3-ol was not detected in the chicken extracts is in line with previous
studies on chickens and other bird species [32-34].” (p8 ll247-250)
Comments on the results
Odorant profiles, Figure 1a
The responses shown are stated to be from GC-SSR. However, based on the high AP
requency and by comparing with Figure 1b, such high frequency seems to be elicited by
higher octenol concentrations (10 times higher) than those shown in Fig. 1a. This figure and
he related descriptions in the text need to be clarified.
Please note that the extracts were concentrated to 0.25 min equivalents/µl for the GC-SSR
analysis. This has resulted in the high AP frequency shown in Fig. 1a and cannot be directly
compared with the GC-SSR analysis with (R)-1-octen-3-ol in Fig. 1b. To avoid confusion, we
have removed the amounts of (R)-1-octen-3-ol from Fig. 1a. Please also see the comments
below for Fig 1b.
SSR, Fig. 1b
1. I am not convinced that mosquitoes can detect natural amounts of octenol based on the SSR
data presented here. Are the responses elicited from 0.01 ng and 1 ng (natural release rate)
statistically different from 0.001ng or 0.01 ng? I did not find any reference to this issue in the
manuscript. I apologize in advance if I missed it. If it is indeed missing, this information
should be included in a revised manuscript. If the responses in the “white panel” are not
statistically different from the lower responses, it will indicate that mosquitoes do not detect
clarify.
We have added in the variation in amount for the human (0.6±0.4 ng min-1 equivalent) and for
he cattle (0.6±0.35 ng min-1 equivalent). The shading has been adjusted accordingly. We are
hankful for the reviewer for this comment. We have now highlighted the difference in
esponse to human and cattle equivalents of (R)-1-octen-3-ol, with the first being near the
hreshold of response for the B cell, and the second well within the detection range. This is
now added in the results section along with the statistical analysis.
“(R)-1-octen-3-ol was present in the cattle hair (0.6±0.35 ng min-1 equivalent) and human
extracts (0.06±0.04 ng min-1 equivalent), but was not detected in the chicken extract (figure
1a). Considering the difference in the methods used to collect the headspace of cattle (shaved
hair), compared to human and chicken (whole body), we may be underestimating the release
ate of (R)-1-octen-3-ol for the cow. Dose-response analysis, using GC-SSRs, revealed a
similar B cell response amongst the three mosquito species to (R)-1-octen-3-ol (F=3.522;
df=2, P=0.063). The response to (R)-1-octen-3-ol that approximates the human release rate
0.01-0.1 ng) reflects the threshold of detection for the B cell in these mosquitoes, while that
associated with cattle hair (0.5-1.0 ng) is well within the detection range of the OSN
F=86.98; df=5, P<0.001; figure 1b; white panel).” (p7 ll198-208)
2. Please use “(R)-octenol (ng)” instead of “Dose (ng)” in the x-axis legend.
Yes. Amended.
3. The functional competence of olfactory neurons is age-dependent (Grant and O’Connell,
2007; Davis, 1984; Bohbot et al., 2013). The variability in the sensitivity (10 & 100 ng doses)
of the receptor neurons may participate to the observed difference. In other words, this
difference in sensitivity may be caused by physiological differences rather than being species
specific. It would have been preferable to work with mosquitoes of the same age (e.g., 6 day-
old). I recommend discussing this potential caveat in the discussion section.
We agree with the reviewer that some of the variance in the results may be due to changes in
sensitivity over time. We have used females competent to host seek in their first gonotrophic
cycle (4-10 dpe). That the difference among the species are still evident, suggests that these
sensitivities are due, at least in part, to species related differences. We further believe that the
GC-SSR analysis of females of different ages incorporates the natural variation in sensitivity
during a reasonable time frame for host seeking under natural conditions. If, indeed, there
would be an effect of age, as has been reported for Aedes aegypti but not for Anopheles
coluzzii (Omondi et al., 2015), this potentially age-related variation appears to be minimal
based on the variation we observe in our analysis (Fig. 1b).
Landing bioassay, Fig. 1c
1. This bioassay can measure different degrees of attraction. However, this assay cannot
measure avoidance (line 80) but may suggest it.
Thank you, and we agree. We have changed this sentence e now to read “we demonstrate that
blend context plays an important role in host and non-host recognition.” (p4 ll 80-81)
2. Although statistically significant (5% level), the reported behavioral effects are minor.
establishing the host spectrum for each of the strains used in this study.
We agree.
3. It would have been desirable to show the effect of a human extract supplemented with
human equivalent octenol. The implications of such results would be interesting either way.
The human extract supplemented with a human amount of (R)-1-octen-3-ol does not add up to
any of the host or non-host amounts of (R)-1-octen-3-ol, and thus simply represents an
unnatural amount of (R)-1-octen-3-ol in the context. We believe that by supplementing the
human extract with the cattle amount of (R)-1-octen-3-ol, we have sufficiently covered this
point.
Additional comments
Page 2, line 26
found the term “generic” counterintuitive as it evokes non-specific cues. The “generic” cue
R-octenol is assumed to mediate host discrimination (e.g., human vs chicken) and is detected
by highly selective and sensitive olfactory mechanisms. I assume the authors meant that R-
octenol is released by a variety of mammals and as such, it is not species specific cue (line
240). I recommend the authors define this term in the background section if they want to use
his term later on in the text.
We have defined the term “generic” now at first use.
“We hypothesise that such plasticity could be maintained through the use of generic cues,
which are common to many host species and detected by conserved olfactory receptor
neurone pathways, placed in different host odour contexts to identify and discriminate among
potential host species.” (p3 ll54-57)
Page 3, line 50-53
The authors state: “Natural selection on the malaria vectors, Anopheles gambiae sensu lato,
and the arbovirus vectors, Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus, has, however, been
shown to favour a restricted host breadth [3], indicating a cost to maintaining plasticity
1].”
Lyimo et al. (2009) bring up an apparent paradox, that the selection for specialization and
generalism is context dependent, each with benefits and costs. When the favorable host
species are dominant (high chances of encounters), the cost for remaining a generalist may be
higher than the cost for specializing. This is a challenging question and I did not read in their
study any evidence supporting or rejecting this idea. I recommend that the authors balance
heir portrait of the evolutionary background information and theories before stating their own
hypothesis (line 53-55). The closing statement of the introduction (Page 3, line 77 & 80)
partially addresses the hypothesis.
We are dealing in this study with mosquitoes which have already become host specialists or at
he very widest definition, poly-specialists. Here, we are attempting to lay out a theory by
which such poly-specialists are able to offset the costs associated with these behaviors by
using generic host cues.
To better indicate this we have removed the valance of the adaptation in the sentence under
“Natural selection on the malaria vectors, Anopheles gambiae sensu lato, and the arbovirus
vectors, Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus, has, however, been shown to favour a
estricted host breadth [3], indicating an adaptive value to maintaining plasticity [1]. We
hypothesise that such plasticity could be maintained through the use of generic cues, which
are common to many host species and detected by conserved olfactory receptor neurone
pathways, placed in different host odour contexts to identify and discriminate among potential
host species.” (p3 ll54-60)
We have also modified the Abstract so it now reads:
“Natural selection favours a restricted host breadth in disease vector mosquitoes, denoting
hat there is an adaptive value associated with maintaining plasticity in host preference. One
mechanism to maintain such plasticity is via the detection of generic cues by conserved
peripheral olfactory pathways, which when perceived in different host odour contexts enable
he identification of and discrimination among potential host species.” (p2 ll25-29)
Page 3, line 53-55
was expecting to see the authors test this hypothesis, i.e., that the cost associated with
specialization is minimized through the use of generic cues. Instead the authors explored the
effect of octenol in different host contexts (line 76- & 77).
Please see the comment above.
Page 3, line 60
Please review this sentence (“up wind” is oddly placed in this sentence).
We have removed up-wind.
Page 3, line 76
Does R-octenol “shape” odor perception or does it elicit different context-dependent
behaviors?
We believe that using the phrase “shapes host perception” is correct in this context.
Page 3, line 77
This statement describes a general pattern from the study of one single odorant: “We
demonstrate that individual host compounds are interpreted…” Please rephrase this statement
o reflect the singularity of their results. By itself, this data is informative enough.
Thank you to the reviewer for catching this. An earlier draft did indeed include more than one
compound in this context. We have revised the sentence:
“We demonstrate that an individual host compound is interpreted…” (p4 l89)
Page 8, line 226-229
Please soften this statement. While the data reported here support their argument, the claim
has not been demonstrated in this study (there is no qPCR or RNA-seq data shown here).
“The observed increase in sensitivity of An. coluzzii B cells to the highest two concentrations
ested, may be related to the combination of the increased transcript abundance and sensitivity
of its cognate odorant receptor, AgOr8 [27, 32], compared with both Ae. aegypti (AaOr8; [33,
34] and Cu. quinquefasciatus (CqOr118 and CqOr113; [35]).” (p8 ll243-247)
Reviewer 2
Comments to the authors
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript by Majeed et al is nicely and carefully written. In terms of methods I wonder
f there would have been a better way of collecting head space samples from the cow much
he same as it was done for humans and chicken?
We did try various ways of collected the headspace from cows, including draping them in
arge plastic sheets with suspended aeration columns or aeration columns alone. Both of these
methods allowed the cow to move freely within the stall. However, the headspace collections
were repeatedly contaminated by extraneous stall-related odours. We opted against enclosing
cows in large tents or other solid methods of confinement as these methods would not allow
us to collect a concentrated extract of odours, and would also result in the headspace sample
rom a stressed individual. In all methods used, the release rate of (R)-1-octen-3-ol was
observed to be consistent.
Also, the sample collection time varies between humans, chicken and cattle. Are the samples
comparable? I'd be happy to see a comment about this somewhere in the manuscript.
Samples are not per se comparable, as we did use different sampling times. For humans and
he chicken, we were able to directly calculate the release rate of (R)-1-octen-3-ol from a
single individual. For the cow, we collected enough hair to be the equivalent of one third of
all hair on a single cow (now added in the manuscript, p4 ll114-115). In this case, our “cattle
equivalent” may be an underestimation of the release rate from a single cow. Now in the
Results section as:
“Considering the difference in the methods used to collect the headspace of cattle (shaved
hair), compared to human and chicken (whole body), we may be underestimating the release
ate of (R)-1-octen-3-ol for the cow.” (p7 ll201-203)
That aside I find the results and interpretations thereof convincing.
Note that Mshinda H, Mukabana WR and Moore SJ have been (erroneously) omitted from
eference # 15. These names should be added.
Thank you for catching this omission. We have rectified it. (p11 ll352).
Society Open
