Thioflavin T as an amyloid dye: fibril quantification, optimal
concentration and effect on aggregation
Christine Xue, Tiffany Yuwen Lin, Dennis Chang and Zhefeng Guo
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160696.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160696
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 September 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160696.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Deguo Du)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Thioflavin T (ThT) is the most commonly used fluorescent dye in the application of identifying
protein amyloid fibril formation, and monitoring the kinetics of protein fibrillization. However,
as Xue et al. discussed in this work, ThT has been rarely used for amyloid quantification purpose,
partly due to lack of thorough investigation of ThT in protein fibril quantification. In this work,
Xue et al. performed a systematic study toward quantification application of ThT on protein
amyloids. The optimal concentration of ThT used for amyloid quantification was determined by
studying three aggregation prone proteins. The linear correlation between ThT fluorescence
intensity of amyloid concentration was observed over a wide range of ThT concentration.
Furthermore, the potential kinetic effect of ThT on protein aggregation was also carefully
addressed.
This research provides more details on the spectroscopic characteristics of ThT in detecting
amyloids. The findings here are quite useful in the field for potential application of ThT in
quantifying amyloid fibrils. I would recommend publication of this work after minor revision as
suggested below:
The authors, as discussed on page 4, corrected the spectra background using an alternative
approach named as “fold change”. The detailed description of this data analysis method,
however, is missing. This should be addressed in more details.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No supporting data available
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Xue et al. in their work "Thioflavin T as an amyloid dye: fibril quantification, optimal
concentration, and effect on aggregation" promised to solve three urgent tasks associated with
ThT use for amiloyd fibrils investigation: (1) Can we use ThT to quantify the amount of amyloid
fibrils? (2) What is the optimal concentration of ThT for monitoring protein aggregation? (3) Does
ThT affect the process of protein aggregation?
The authors are experts in biochemistry of amyloid fibrils. It is quite clear from the thorough
description of amyloid fibrils preparation.
ThT for a long time is used for amyloid fibrils study, but authors did not use ThT in their practice
before. It seems that the authors decided to enlarge the arsenal of method of amyloid fibrils study
and found that three urgent for amyloids fibrils investigation questions are not solved. So the
authors not bothering to neither understand the basics of fluorescence, nor inspect the literature
on the features of ThT fluorescence launched their investigations. The authors even did not
introduce the section concerning ThT fluorescence and spectroscopic devices used in their work
in Materials and Methods.
It seems that the authors do not know literature concerning ThT fluorescence and ThT binding to
amyloid fibrils and even do not read carefully the work they referred to. For example they
referred to serious work by Amdursky et al., where it is shown that ThT is rotor molecule and
where it is confirmed that ThT binds to fibrils in monomer form as it was proposed by Krebs et al.
(2005) and at the same time presented experimental data which as they wrote proved that ThT
fluorescence is determined by micelles (Figure 1) as it was supposedly shown by Khurana et al.
(2005). This conception was criticized in many works (see, e.g. Kitts and Bout 2009; Kuznetsova et
al., 2012).
Now most of researchers adhere to Krebs model according to which ThT is embedded in the
amyloid fibrils in monomeric form (Kitts and Bout 2009, Amdursky et. al., 2012, Kusnetsova et al.
2016)
Furthermore, the given dependence did not suggest micelles formation: when the concentration
of ThT is very small its fluorescence intensity is smaller than that of background (in the presented
Figure it is rather high - only three times smaller than fluorescence intensity of the maximal ThT
fluorescence), but when the concentration of ThT is higher than some 'critical' concentration the
intensity of ThT fluorescence became greater than that of background. It was concluded that
starting from this concentration ThT forms micelles. Important, after Khurana, the authors
presented their data in semi-logarithmic scale. It misleads the reader (and perhaps the authors). It
is enough to submit these data in common coordinates (dependence of fluorescence intensity on
solution absorbance, or dye concentration) the curve becomes gradually increasing, and
consequently it becomes obvious that there are no grounds for assuming the existence of micelles.
Furthermore, it can be checked that the same dependence can be registered for any dye, not only
for ThT, and its form does not indicate the dyes aggregates formation.
All the dependences of ThT fluorescence intensity upon ThT concentration prove only that there
is inner filter effect. It seems that the authors do not know the existence of primary and secondary
inner filter effect, and that fluorescence intensity in principle is not proportional to the dye
concentration. Ideally, the dependence of fluorescence intensity on the dye concentration is a
curve with saturation, but when the illuminated volume and the volume from which fluorescence
light is gathered do not match the fluorescence intensity decreases after reaching a certain
concentration of the dye. There is a large literature concerning this effect and the ideas how to
correct fluorescence intensity (one of the recent work was done by Fonin et al., 2014). The inner
filter effects depend on the solution absorption (on the dye concentration) and on the device
construction and must be taken into account.
Authors' suggestion not to subtract background but to divide the value of the recorded
fluorescence intensity of the sample by that of background is absurd. This procedure cannot
exclude background fluorescence!
4
The authors did not take into account that not all ThT inserted in the solution is bound to
amyloid fibrils, and that both free and bound ThT contribute to absorption. Authors' conclusion
that fluorescence intensity does not depend upon the ratio of ThT and fibrils concentrations
means that there are too many artifacts in their experiments. In reality fluorescence intensity
depends upon the amyloidogenic protein, the number of ThT binding sites, and binding
constants of ThT and definite binding site. So the statement of the authors that " …there are no
systematic studies on the relationship between ThT fluorescence and amyloid concentration"
(page 3) is not true (see e.g. Kuznetsova et al., 20120 Analysis of the relations given in this work
also shows that there is no linear dependence of fluorescence intensity on fibrils concentration.
Finally, if there were fibrils aggregates, after sonication the solution can be nonequilibrium and
the process of aggregation must be taken into account. It will be good to examine the structure of
amyloid fibrils before and after sonication by electron or atomic force microscopy.
I cannot recommend the work for publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160696)
01-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Guo,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Thioflavin T as an amyloid dye: fibril quantification, optimal
concentration, and effect on aggregation") have now received comments from reviewers. While
there was interest in your study, one reviewer felt that the existing literature was not adequately
referenced and discussed in your paper, and there was also some criticism of the technical aspects
of this work. Hence, we would like to invite you to revise your paper in accordance with the
referee suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 24-Nov-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
5
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160696
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Thioflavin T (ThT) is the most commonly used fluorescent dye in the application of identifying
protein amyloid fibril formation, and monitoring the kinetics of protein fibrillization. However,
as Xue et al. discussed in this work, ThT has been rarely used for amyloid quantification purpose,
partly due to lack of thorough investigation of ThT in protein fibril quantification. In this work,
Xue et al. performed a systematic study toward quantification application of ThT on protein
amyloids. The optimal concentration of ThT used for amyloid quantification was determined by
studying three aggregation prone proteins. The linear correlation between ThT fluorescence
intensity of amyloid concentration was observed over a wide range of ThT concentration.
Furthermore, the potential kinetic effect of ThT on protein aggregation was also carefully
addressed.
This research provides more details on the spectroscopic characteristics of ThT in detecting
amyloids. The findings here are quite useful in the field for potential application of ThT in
quantifying amyloid fibrils. I would recommend publication of this work after minor revision as
suggested below:
The authors, as discussed on page 4, corrected the spectra background using an alternative
approach named as “fold change”. The detailed description of this data analysis method,
however, is missing. This should be addressed in more details.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Xue et al. in their work "Thioflavin T as an amyloid dye: fibril quantification, optimal
concentration, and effect on aggregation" promised to solve three urgent tasks associated with
ThT use for amiloyd fibrils investigation: (1) Can we use ThT to quantify the amount of amyloid
fibrils? (2) What is the optimal concentration of ThT for monitoring protein aggregation? (3) Does
ThT affect the process of protein aggregation?
The authors are experts in biochemistry of amyloid fibrils. It is quite clear from the thorough
description of amyloid fibrils preparation.
ThT for a long time is used for amyloid fibrils study, but authors did not use ThT in their practice
before. It seems that the authors decided to enlarge the arsenal of method of amyloid fibrils study
and found that three urgent for amyloids fibrils investigation questions are not solved. So the
authors not bothering to neither understand the basics of fluorescence, nor inspect the literature
7
on the features of ThT fluorescence launched their investigations. The authors even did not
introduce the section concerning ThT fluorescence and spectroscopic devices used in their work
in Materials and Methods.
It seems that the authors do not know literature concerning ThT fluorescence and ThT binding to
amyloid fibrils and even do not read carefully the work they referred to. For example they
referred to serious work by Amdursky et al., where it is shown that ThT is rotor molecule and
where it is confirmed that ThT binds to fibrils in monomer form as it was proposed by Krebs et al.
(2005) and at the same time presented experimental data which as they wrote proved that ThT
fluorescence is determined by micelles (Figure 1) as it was supposedly shown by Khurana et al.
(2005). This conception was criticized in many works (see, e.g. Kitts and Bout 2009; Kuznetsova et
al., 2012).
Now most of researchers adhere to Krebs model according to which ThT is embedded in the
amyloid fibrils in monomeric form (Kitts and Bout 2009, Amdursky et. al., 2012, Kusnetsova et al.
2016)
Furthermore, the given dependence did not suggest micelles formation: when the concentration
of ThT is very small its fluorescence intensity is smaller than that of background (in the presented
Figure it is rather high - only three times smaller than fluorescence intensity of the maximal ThT
fluorescence), but when the concentration of ThT is higher than some 'critical' concentration the
intensity of ThT fluorescence became greater than that of background. It was concluded that
starting from this concentration ThT forms micelles. Important, after Khurana, the authors
presented their data in semi-logarithmic scale. It misleads the reader (and perhaps the authors). It
is enough to submit these data in common coordinates (dependence of fluorescence intensity on
solution absorbance, or dye concentration) the curve becomes gradually increasing, and
consequently it becomes obvious that there are no grounds for assuming the existence of micelles.
Furthermore, it can be checked that the same dependence can be registered for any dye, not only
for ThT, and its form does not indicate the dyes aggregates formation.
All the dependences of ThT fluorescence intensity upon ThT concentration prove only that there
is inner filter effect. It seems that the authors do not know the existence of primary and secondary
inner filter effect, and that fluorescence intensity in principle is not proportional to the dye
concentration. Ideally, the dependence of fluorescence intensity on the dye concentration is a
curve with saturation, but when the illuminated volume and the volume from which fluorescence
light is gathered do not match the fluorescence intensity decreases after reaching a certain
concentration of the dye. There is a large literature concerning this effect and the ideas how to
correct fluorescence intensity (one of the recent work was done by Fonin et al., 2014). The inner
filter effects depend on the solution absorption (on the dye concentration) and on the device
construction and must be taken into account.
Authors' suggestion not to subtract background but to divide the value of the recorded
fluorescence intensity of the sample by that of background is absurd. This procedure cannot
exclude background fluorescence!
The authors did not take into account that not all ThT inserted in the solution is bound to
amyloid fibrils, and that both free and bound ThT contribute to absorption. Authors' conclusion
that fluorescence intensity does not depend upon the ratio of ThT and fibrils concentrations
means that there are too many artifacts in their experiments. In reality fluorescence intensity
depends upon the amyloidogenic protein, the number of ThT binding sites, and binding
constants of ThT and definite binding site. So the statement of the authors that " …there are no
systematic studies on the relationship between ThT fluorescence and amyloid concentration"
(page 3) is not true (see e.g. Kuznetsova et al., 20120 Analysis of the relations given in this work
also shows that there is no linear dependence of fluorescence intensity on fibrils concentration.
8
Finally, if there were fibrils aggregates, after sonication the solution can be nonequilibrium and
the process of aggregation must be taken into account. It will be good to examine the structure of
amyloid fibrils before and after sonication by electron or atomic force microscopy.
I cannot recommend the work for publication.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160696)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160696.R1)
28-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Guo,
Thank you for submitting a revised version of your manuscript "Thioflavin T as an amyloid dye:
fibril quantification, optimal concentration, and effect on aggregation". I am pleased to inform
you that after the changes made your manuscript is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
ponse to reviewer’s comments
We thank the reviewers for their review and comments. We have revised our manuscript
ordingly. Detailed below are our point-by-point responses.
viewer 1
mments to the Author(s)
oflavin T (ThT) is the most commonly used fluorescent dye in the application of identifying
tein amyloid fibril formation, and monitoring the kinetics of protein fibrillization. However,
Xue et al. discussed in this work, ThT has been rarely used for amyloid quantification purpose,
tly due to lack of thorough investigation of ThT in protein fibril quantification. In this work,
et al. performed a systematic study toward quantification application of ThT on protein
yloids. The optimal concentration of ThT used for amyloid quantification was determined by
dying three aggregation prone proteins. The linear correlation between ThT fluorescence
nsity of amyloid concentration was observed over a wide range of ThT concentration.
thermore, the potential kinetic effect of ThT on protein aggregation was also carefully
ressed.
s research provides more details on the spectroscopic characteristics of ThT in detecting
yloids. The findings here are quite useful in the field for potential application of ThT in
ntifying amyloid fibrils. I would recommend publication of this work after minor revision as
gested below:
authors, as discussed on page 4, corrected the spectra background using an alternative
roach named as “fold change”. The detailed description of this data analysis method,
ever, is missing. This should be addressed in more details.
Response: We have now included how we obtained “fold change” in the main text. The
vant part of the manuscript is copied below (page 5, first paragraph).
“Here we propose another way of background correction by presenting the data as fold
change in fluorescence intensity over background ThT signal. To calculate fold change,
the fluorescence intensity of the protein sample is divided by the fluorescence intensity of
the ThT-only sample for each ThT concentration.”
And for the aggregation data, the following sentence was added (page 6, paragraph 4
m bottom):
“The aggregation data are presented as fold change, which is calculated by dividing the
fluorescence intensity of the aggregation sample by the ThT-only sample for each time
point of incubation.”
viewer 2
mments to the Author(s)
et al. in their work "Thioflavin T as an amyloid dye: fibril quantification, optimal
centration, and effect on aggregation" promised to solve three urgent tasks associated with
use for amiloyd fibrils investigation: (1) Can we use ThT to quantify the amount of amyloid
ils? (2) What is the optimal concentration of ThT for monitoring protein aggregation? (3)
es ThT affect the process of protein aggregation?
authors are experts in biochemistry of amyloid fibrils. It is quite clear from the thorough
cription of amyloid fibrils preparation.
for a long time is used for amyloid fibrils study, but authors did not use ThT in their practice
ore. It seems that the authors decided to enlarge the arsenal of method of amyloid fibrils
dy and found that three urgent for amyloids fibrils investigation questions are not solved. So
authors not bothering to neither understand the basics of fluorescence, nor inspect the
rature on the features of ThT fluorescence launched their investigations. The authors even did
introduce the section concerning ThT fluorescence and spectroscopic devices used in their
k in Materials and Methods.
Response: We believe there are several misunderstandings for the rationale of our
estigation. First of all, we have used ThT in our practice before (e.g., Gu et al. J. Biol. Chem.
4, 289:27300-13; Gu et al., J. Struct. Biol. 2016, 194:61-7). It is not because we have not
d ThT before: quite the contrary, it is because we have used ThT in numerous investigations
realized that some practical questions on the use of ThT in protein aggregation have not been
y addressed. And we never stated that these questions are “urgent”, but we do believe that
se questions are worthy addressing so that the use of ThT can be more standardized. It is our
ntion to make ThT more useful, and to make the results of ThT-monitored aggregation
eriments more comparable between different laboratories. We did read the literature on the
ics of fluorescence, and on the features of ThT fluorescence. We did not, however, discuss
mechanism of ThT binding to amyloid, or the basis of ThT fluorescence, because it was
er part of our investigation. Our investigation is from the viewpoint of users of ThT who are
ng protein aggregation experiments. We mentioned the instrument used for ThT measurement
he last section of Materials and Methods: “the microplate was transferred to a Victor 3V plate
der (Perkin Elmer)”, and also gave the parameters for measurement: “with excitation filter of
nm and emission filter of 490 nm”. We acknowledge that the plate reader information was
sing in the section “ThT binding to sonicated amyloid fibrils”, and we now have rewritten
section with a new subtitle “ThT preparation and fluorescence measurement”, which
udes the plate reader information (page 9, paragraph 6; copied below).
“The ThT fluorescence was measured at room temperature (~24°C) using a Victor 3V
plate reader (Perkin Elmer) through the bottom of the plate with excitation filter of 450
nm and emission filter of 490 nm.”
Furthermore, we have added some more introductions to the basis of ThT fluorescence
the mechanism of ThT binding to amyloid, as we realized that this may be of interest to
e readers. However, we kept our introduction of this section to a minimum but gave plenty of
rences to guide interested readers for more readings.
“Upon binding to amyloid fibrils, ThT gives a strong fluorescence signal at
approximately 482 nm when excited at 450 nm [2]. The mechanism of fluorescence
enhancement upon binding to amyloid has been attributed to the rotational
immobilization of the central C-C bond connecting the benzothiazole and aniline rings
[3–5]. It is commonly accepted that ThT binds to the side chain channels along the long
axis of amyloid fibrils [6]. The minimal binding site on the fibril surface has been
suggested to span four consecutive ß-strands [7,8]. Numerous other studies have been
performed to investigate the physicochemical and spectroscopic properties of ThT upon
binding to amyloids fibrils, and the binding mechanism [reviewed in 9–11].”
eems that the authors do not know literature concerning ThT fluorescence and ThT binding to
yloid fibrils and even do not read carefully the work they referred to. For example they
rred to serious work by Amdursky et al., where it is shown that ThT is rotor molecule and
ere it is confirmed that ThT binds to fibrils in monomer form as it was proposed by Krebs et al.
05) and at the same time presented experimental data which as they wrote proved that ThT
rescence is determined by micelles (Figure 1) as it was supposedly shown by Khurana et al.
05). This conception was criticized in many works (see, e.g. Kitts and Bout 2009; Kuznetsova
l., 2012).
w most of researchers adhere to Krebs model according to which ThT is embedded in the
yloid fibrils in monomeric form (Kitts and Bout 2009, Amdursky et. al., 2012, Kusnetsova et al.
6)
Response: Now this is an apparent misunderstanding about our Figure 1. And we
pectfully reject the reviewer’s assertion that we “even do not read carefully the work they
rred to”. We have never stated that our data “proved that ThT fluorescence is determined by
elles (Figure 1)”. Our Figure 1 shows that ThT becomes self-fluorescent at higher
centrations (5 µM or higher). By referring to Khurana et al. (2005), we were merely pointing
that similar phenomenon of self-fluorescence was also observed by Khurana et al., and that
is consistent with micelle formation. However, we have never, in anywhere of our text, made
statement about ThT binding to amyloid fibrils in the micelle form. As a matter of fact, we
er mentioned anything about how our results would have implications on the mechanism of
T binding to amyloid. Like we mentioned above, the goal of this investigation was not to
ress the mechanism of ThT binding. We realized that the paragraph referring to the work of
urana et al. (2005) may give confusion to some readers. So we have now re-written that
agraph to clarify it. We also included two new references that demonstrate the existence of
T micelles (page 4, paragraph 5; copied below for reviewers’ convenience).
“The increase in fluorescence intensity above 5 µM ThT is likely due to micelle
formation, which has been studied previously by Khurana et al.[29]. Khurana et al.[29]
show that ThT has a critical micelle concentration of ~4 µM, in good agreement with our
observations that ThT becomes self-fluorescent at or above 5 µM. Formation of ThT
micelles was also demonstrated by Sabaté et al. [30] and Donnelly et al. [31]. To be clear,
however, our results do not imply, nor are we suggesting, that ThT binds to amyloid in
the form of micelles.”
thermore, the given dependence did not suggest micelles formation: when the concentration
hT is very small its fluorescence intensity is smaller than that of background (in the
sented Figure it is rather high - only three times smaller than fluorescence intensity of the
ximal ThT fluorescence), but when the concentration of ThT is higher than some 'critical'
centration the intensity of ThT fluorescence became greater than that of background. It was
cluded that starting from this concentration ThT forms micelles. Important, after Khurana,
authors presented their data in semi-logarithmic scale. It misleads the reader (and perhaps
authors). It is enough to submit these data in common coordinates (dependence of
rescence intensity on solution absorbance, or dye concentration) the curve becomes
dually increasing, and consequently it becomes obvious that there are no grounds for
uming the existence of micelles. Furthermore, it can be checked that the same dependence
be registered for any dye, not only for ThT, and its form does not indicate the dyes
regates formation.
Response: Our results by themselves in Figure 1 do not suggest micelle formation. We
ee with Reviewer 2 on this. And we did not claim that our data suggest so. We merely pointed
the correlation between the increase in self-fluorescence and the micelle formation studied by
urana et al. (2005).
Regarding the use of log scale for the ThT concentration in Figure 1, we believe that this
ecessary. The range of ThT concentrations in Figure 1 is from 0.2 to 500 µM. This is over 4
ers of magnitude. If ThT concentration is plotted on a linear scale, any concentration
endent feature is not visible at lower concentration range.
Now regarding the existence of ThT micelles at higher ThT concentrations, although this
ot something that we investigated (again, we are merely pointing out the correlation),
urana et al. (2005) performed conductivity measurements to determine the existence of
elles. They also measured the diffusion rate of ThT micells by NMR, and visualized the
rphology using atomic force microscopy. So it is definitely not as simple as “assuming the
tence of micelles”.
Furthermore, Sabaté et al. (2008, J. Struct. Biol. 162:387-96) also show that ThT forms
elles using conductivity and fluorescence anisotropy measurements, although at higher ThT
centration. Donnelly et al. (2016, Chem. Phys. 477:19-23) used dynamic light scattering to
w that ThT forms micelles.
We have now added these references to the section mentioning micelles, as shown in the
ponse above.
the dependences of ThT fluorescence intensity upon ThT concentration prove only that there
nner filter effect. It seems that the authors do not know the existence of primary and
ondary inner filter effect, and that fluorescence intensity in principle is not proportional to
dye concentration. Ideally, the dependence of fluorescence intensity on the dye concentration
curve with saturation, but when the illuminated volume and the volume from which
rescence light is gathered do not match the fluorescence intensity decreases after reaching a
tain concentration of the dye. There is a large literature concerning this effect and the ideas
to correct fluorescence intensity (one of the recent work was done by Fonin et al., 2014).
inner filter effects depend on the solution absorption (on the dye concentration) and on the
ice construction and must be taken into account.
Response: From the little things we know about ThT fluorescence, we do not think inner
er effect can explain why ThT, in the absence of amyloid, would fluoresce at higher
centrations but not at lower concentrations. Sure, inner filter effect can be used to explain
e nonlinearity of the dependence of the fluorescence intensity on fluorophore concentration”
oted from the reviewer suggested reference, Fonin et al. PLoS One, 2014, 9:e103878), but
is not our point in Figure 1. We were pointing out that ThT becomes self-fluorescent at
her concentrations. And this phenomenon correlates with the proposed micelle formation in
vious studies.
hors' suggestion not to subtract background but to divide the value of the recorded
rescence intensity of the sample by that of background is absurd. This procedure cannot
lude background fluorescence!
Response: We never stated that we can, nor we want to, “exclude background
rescence”. What we wanted to achieve is to have some means of presenting the protein
regation data monitored with ThT so that results from different laboratories can be compared.
see no absurdity, quite contrary to what the reviewer alleged, in our proposed data
sentation. If a measurement has a background signal in the absence of sample, then our data
sentation is simply the ratio of signal over background. We respectfully argue that this is quite
asonable thing to do.
Furthermore, the reviewer stated, two paragraphs above, “when the concentration of ThT
ery small its fluorescence intensity is smaller than that of background (in the presented
ure it is rather high - only three times smaller than fluorescence intensity of the maximal ThT
rescence”. What the reviewer is doing here is to use division (“three times smaller”), or in
words – fold change, to make a statement that our measured background fluorescence
nsity is high. We hope the reviewer sees the irony in that.
authors did not take into account that not all ThT inserted in the solution is bound to
yloid fibrils, and that both free and bound ThT contribute to absorption. Authors' conclusion
t fluorescence intensity does not depend upon the ratio of ThT and fibrils concentrations
ans that there are too many artifacts in their experiments. In reality fluorescence intensity
ends upon the amyloidogenic protein, the number of ThT binding sites, and binding constants
hT and definite binding site. So the statement of the authors that " …there are no systematic
dies on the relationship between ThT fluorescence and amyloid concentration" (page 3) is not
e (see e.g. Kuznetsova et al., 20120 Analysis of the relations given in this work also shows
t there is no linear dependence of fluorescence intensity on fibrils concentration.
Response: We never stated anywhere that “fluorescence intensity does not depend upon
ratio of ThT and fibrils concentrations”. On the contrary, we show that at a given ThT
centration, there is a linear dependence between fluorescence intensity and amyloid to dye
o. This is how we suggest that ThT can be used to quantify amyloid concentration. What we
ed in the text is that the maximum fluorescence signal mostly depends on the total ThT
centration, rather than amyloid to ThT ratio. And we provided detailed discussion on that.
The reviewer quoted our text of “…there are no systematic studies on the relationship
ween ThT fluorescence and amyloid concentration” and took it out of context. We were
ing about the rationale for investigating whether ThT can be used to quantify amyloid fibrils.
his context, there are no systematic studies to address this issue. The work mentioned by the
iewer, Kuznetsova et al. (2012, Mol. Neurobiol., 45:488-98) did not address this issue.
ether ThT can be used to quantify amyloid fibrils is a practical issue. In this work, we have
wn that the linear relationship between fluorescence intensity and amyloid concentration
sts over a wide range of ThT concentrations, and at least for three amyloid proteins that we
estigated. To say that there is no linear dependence of fluorescence intensity on fibril
centration based on mechanistic studies of Kuznetsova et al. (2012) is to ignore experimental
ervations. If current understandings of the mechanism of ThT binding to amyloid can not
lain the linear dependence between fluorescence intensity and amyloid concentration, as
gested by the reviewer’s mention of Kuznetsova et al. (2012), then more mechanistic studies
st be performed to better understand the mechanism. To avoid misunderstanding, we have
hrased the statement about previous systematic studies, which is copied below (page 3,
agraph 2):
“Part of the reason may be that there are few systematic studies on the relationship
between ThT fluorescence and amyloid concentration to show how robust this method of
amyloid quantification is.”
ally, if there were fibrils aggregates, after sonication the solution can be nonequilibrium and
process of aggregation must be taken into account. It will be good to examine the structure of
yloid fibrils before and after sonication by electron or atomic force microscopy.
Response: ThT reports the total mass of amyloid fibrils. The process of sonication is to
ak down the amyloid fibrils into smaller fragments, while the total mass of fibrils remains
hanged. This has been shown in numerous studies. One example is a recent study by
ideris et al. (2015, PeerJ, 3:e1207), in which AFM images of insulin fibrils with different
ication time are shown.
In terms of the structure of amyloid fibrils before and after sonication, this is also a topic
has been intensively investigated. For example, structural studies using solid-state NMR
e shown that the Aß fibril seeds obtained by sonication have the same structure as the parent
il (Petkova et al. 2005, Science, 307:262-5).
Society Open
