A Ni-based catalyst with polyvinyl pyrrolidone as a
dispersant supported in a pretreated fluid catalytic cracking
catalyst residue for C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation
Dong Chen, Linlin Wang, Xiaopeng Chen, Xiaojie Wei, Jiezhen Liang, Jiao Jiang and
Baofang Liang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172052.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172052
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172052.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Frederic Meunier)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper reports on the beneficial effect of modifying a Ni catalyst with a polymer (PVP). The
work is novel and the conclusions reported are supported by the data and analysis reported. I do
not see any major flaw and recommend publication after minor revisions:
Highlights:
- the term “ecological” is out of place here, it can be replaced with “waste-based material”. Same
comment applies in Section 1.
-one of the statement “small nickel particles” and “high Ni dispersion” is redundant. The same
comment applies to the Abstract.
Section 2.
The treatment with sulfuric acid, to remove metals from the recycled materials, may not be
considered as “green chemistry”. The waste stream needs to be disposed of. This moderate the
“ecologic” aspect of the process.
Page 11, Fig. 7: the band at 2350/cm correspond to ambient CO2, not Si-H stretching bands.
Page 13: the sentence “This was attributed to less agglomeration of nickel because of the smaller
particle size and higher dispersion of nickel.” appears meaningless: the latter part does not
explain the former, those are equivalent.
Page 16 and Fig. 13: the IR spectra apeear identical, both exhibiting bands at 3050/cm of
aromatics. These data needs to be analysed in more details and the paragraphs rewritten.
Table 3: Giving specific surface areas with six significant figures is probably overstating the
expected precision of the corresponding measure. Same for pore size.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Eduard Karakhanov)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In a file (see Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172052.R0)
27-Feb-2018
Dear Dr Wang:
Title: A Ni catalyst with Polyvinyl pyrrolidone as a dispersant supported on fluid catalytic
cracking catalyst residue for C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172052
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 22-Mar-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
4
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172052
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, AMRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Patricia
Hunt.
5
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Please address all of the issues raised by the reviewers.
It is outlined in the Journal information pages that data and experimental protocols and
procedures including statistical analysis must be performed to a high technical standard for
publication. It is important to ensure all data is reported to appropriate significant figures
(precision) and that error boundaries (accuracy) be provided. In particular experiments should
be carried out as a minimum in triplicate and the standard deviation provided. Please ensure
these standards are reached for your data, tables and graphs.
The Royal Society is committed to advancing science through the support of open data. It is a
condition of publication that all raw data to support the conclusions made in the paper are
deposited in a public repository, or available to readers in the supplementary material. Open data
maximises the transparency of the work as well as fostering innovation across all areas of science.
The comment that "All of the data in this investigation have been reported in the paper and are
freely available." is not sufficient, the data must be made available on a public repository and the
location of the data reported in the paper. Please note that this is the *raw data* many authors
initially mistake this and only re-represent the figures, it is the data that must be deposited.
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This paper reports on the beneficial effect of modifying a Ni catalyst with a polymer (PVP). The
work is novel and the conclusions reported are supported by the data and analysis reported. I do
not see any major flaw and recommend publication after minor revisions:
Highlights:
- the term “ecological” is out of place here, it can be replaced with “waste-based material”. Same
comment applies in Section 1.
-one of the statement “small nickel particles” and “high Ni dispersion” is redundant. The same
comment applies to the Abstract.
Section 2.
The treatment with sulfuric acid, to remove metals from the recycled materials, may not be
considered as “green chemistry”. The waste stream needs to be disposed of. This moderate the
“ecologic” aspect of the process.
Page 11, Fig. 7: the band at 2350/cm correspond to ambient CO2, not Si-H stretching bands.
Page 13: the sentence “This was attributed to less agglomeration of nickel because of the smaller
6
particle size and higher dispersion of nickel.” appears meaningless: the latter part does not
explain the former, those are equivalent.
Page 16 and Fig. 13: the IR spectra apeear identical, both exhibiting bands at 3050/cm of
aromatics. These data needs to be analysed in more details and the paragraphs rewritten.
Table 3: Giving specific surface areas with six significant figures is probably overstating the
expected precision of the corresponding measure. Same for pore size.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
In a file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172052.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172052.R1)
18-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Wang:
Title: A Ni catalyst with Polyvinyl pyrrolidone as a dispersant supported on fluid catalytic
cracking catalyst residue for C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172052.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
7
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Patricia
Hunt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
REVIEW
A Ni-based catalyst with Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) as a dispersant supported in a
pretreated fluid catalytic cracking (PFC3R) catalyst residue for C9 petroleum resin
hydrogenation
The manuscript under consideration deals with investigation of a new Ni catalyst for
petroleum resin hydrogenation. The article fairly agrees with the Journal topics.
Recently the number of research activities on different aspects of petroleum resin
modification is growing, including copolymerization, epoxidation, hydrogenation, etc. In this
regard the topicality of the research field is unmistakable. The results can be practical for
developing a new technology and a catalyst for polymer hydrogenation, that makes it possible to
state practical relevance of the work. The number of research papers on catalytic hydrogenation
of petroleum resins is not very large, metallic (Ni, Pt, Pd) catalysts are not widely investigated.
That is why the novelty of the proposed solutions can be pointed out.
The parts of the article are stated clearly and with the proper expansion. Scientific style
and terminology are quit perfect. Along with this, several remarks are to be drawn out, that
would help to improve the paper presented.
1. Page 9 – 200# solvent oil. The composition and the main properties (boiling range,
aromatics content) of the solvent should be described briefly.
2. The procedure for petroleum resin product separation from the solvent should be
described.
3. It may be interesting to determine molecular weight of petroleum resin and the product
in order to explain softening point decrease.
4. Hydrogenation degree is characterized by bromine value, that corresponds to double
bonds content. However, aromatic rings are hydrogenated, too. The fact is that aromatic rings are
hydrogenated not as rapidly, as olefins. The aromatics hydrogenation degree might better
characterize catalyst activity. So, it might be interesting to determine aromatic protons content
for all samples.
5. The catalyst support contains zeolite with high acidic properties. It may be desirable to
investigate effect of support on cracking reactions that result in molecular weight and softening
point deterioration.
6. One may recommend to present more information on petroleum resin hydrogenation
catalysts in Introduction part. Some patents may be mentioned, for example 6755963 (US),
5817900 (US), as well as papers (J. Chem. Tech. Biotechnol. 1992, 53, 365-371; Petroleum
Chemistry. 2018, 58, 48–55).
The remarks presented do not affect general high rating of the paper. After the minor
revision the manuscript can be accepted for publication.
Appendix B
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172052
Dear editor and reviewers,
Thank you for your latter and for the reviewers’ comments concerning our
manuscript entitled “A Ni-based catalyst with Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) as a
dispersant supported in a pretreated fluid catalytic cracking (PFC3R) catalyst
residue for C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation” (ID: RSOS-172052). Those
comments are all valuable and helpful for revising and improving our paper, as well as
the important guiding significance to our researches. We have taken them into a careful
consideration and have made correction which we hope meet with approval. Revised
portions are marked in red in the paper. The main changes in the paper and responds to
the reviewer’s comments are as following.
Sincerely yours,
Dong Chen, Linlin Wang*, Xiaopeng Chen*, Xiaojie Wei, Jiezhen Liang, Jiao Jiang,
Baofang Liang
School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,
Guangxi University,
100 University Ave. E., Nanning 530004, China.
Tel: +86-771-3233728; Fax: +86-771-323-3718
E-mail: 1049620086@qq.com; wanglinlin1971@sina.com
Responses to the Editor’s comments:
Thank you very much for your effort in reviewing our manuscript. We appreciate
your professional attitude in the review of our study. We ensure all data is reported to
appropriate significant figures (precision) and that error boundaries (accuracy) have
been provided. The datasets supporting this article have been uploaded as part of the
electronic supplementary material. We have revised the paper carefully according to
your suggestions.
Responds to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer 1:
1. The reviewer's comment:
Highlights:
- the term “ecological” is out of place here, it can be replaced with “waste-based
material”. Same comment applies in Section 1.
-one of the statement “small nickel particles” and “high Ni dispersion” is redundant.
The same comment applies to the Abstract.
[Responses] Thank you for your suggestion.
“ecological” in Highlights and section 1 has been replaced with “waste-based
material”.
“high Ni dispersion” in Highlights and the Abstract has been deleted.
2. The reviewer's comment: Section 2. The treatment with sulfuric acid, to remove
metals from the recycled materials, may not be considered as “green chemistry”. The
waste stream needs to be disposed of. This moderate the “ecologic” aspect of the
process.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment.
We agree with the viewpoint of the reviewer. However, sulfuric acid played a quite
important role in pretreatment of the support in this work. Hydrogenation activity of
the catalyst was better after the treatment with sulfuric acid, which may be ascribed to
the larger specific surface area and pore volume. And according to the reviewer’s
comment, we will study more environmentally friendly pretreatment methods (e.g.,
suitable reaming agents, microwave treatment) in the future work.
3. The reviewer's comment: Page 11, Fig. 7: the band at 2350/cm correspond to
ambient CO2, not Si-H stretching bands.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment.
“the stretching vibration of Si–H” on page 12 in the revised manuscript has been
replaced with “ambient CO2”.
4. The reviewer's comment: Page 13: the sentence “This was attributed to less
agglomeration of nickel because of the smaller particle size and higher dispersion of
nickel.” appears meaningless: the latter part does not explain the former, those are
equivalent.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment.
“less agglomeration of nickel because of” on page 14 in the revised manuscript
has been deleted.
5. The reviewer's comment: Page 16 and Fig. 13: the IR spectra apeear identical,
both exhibiting bands at 3050/cm of aromatics. These data needs to be analysed in more
details and the paragraphs rewritten.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment.
FTIR measurements of C9 HPR and C9 PR were remeasured and illustrated in Fig.
13. Discussion have been rewritten. The detailed revision can be seen in section 3.4 on
page16 and in “References” (Refs 38-40) on page 23 in the revised manuscript.
6. The reviewer's comment: Table 3: Giving specific surface areas with six
significant figures is probably overstating the expected precision of the corresponding
measure. Same for pore size.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment.
We have rewritten specific surface areas, most probable pore sizes and total pore
volumes with reasonable significant figures in Table 3 in accordance with the
reviewer’s comment.
Reviewer #2:
1. The reviewer's comment: Page 9 – 200# solvent oil. The composition and the
main properties (boiling range, aromatics content) of the solvent should be described
briefly.
[Responses] Thank you for your suggestions.
We have added the composition and the main properties (boiling range, aromatics
content) of 200# solvent oil to our manuscript. The detailed revision can be seen in
section 2.1 on page 6 in the revised manuscript.
2. The reviewer's comment: The procedure for petroleum resin product separation
from the solvent should be described.
[Responses] Thank you for your suggestions.
We have added the procedure for petroleum resin product separation from the
solvent to our manuscript. The detailed revision can be seen in section 2.4 on page 9.
3. The reviewer's comment: It may be interesting to determine molecular weight of
petroleum resin and the product in order to explain softening point decrease.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment.
As suggested by the reviewer, we have determined molecular weight of petroleum
resin and the product by gel permeation chromatography (GPC). The results are
illustrated in Table 4. The detailed revision can be seen in section 2.4 on page 9-10 and
in section 3.4 on page 17.
4. The reviewer's comment: Hydrogenation degree is characterized by bromine
value, that corresponds to double bonds content. However, aromatic rings are
hydrogenated, too. The fact is that aromatic rings are hydrogenated not as rapidly, as
olefins. The aromatics hydrogenation degree might better characterize catalyst activity.
So, it might be interesting to determine aromatic protons content for all samples.
[Responses] Thank you for your comment. Your suggestions are professional and
helpful.
Bromine number in C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation was used to discuss the
activity of Ni-PVP/PFC3R and compared with that of Ni/PFC3R in the original
manuscript. Previous experiments [L Yu, D Jiang, J Xu, L Ma, X Li. 2012. Two-Stage
Hydrogenation Modification of C9 Petroleum Resin over NiWS/<U+03B3>-Al2O3 and PdRu/<U+03B3>-Al2O3
Catalysts in Series. China Pet. Process. Pe. 14, 83-89.; C Wei, X Chen, J Xue, X Wei, J Liang, R
Liang, L Wang. 2016. A small eggshell Ni/SFC3R catalyst for C5 petroleum resin hydrogenation:
preparation and characterization. RSC Adv. 49113–49122.] that used bromine number as
indicators to discuss the preparation and performance of catalysts obtained satisfactory
results.
As suggested by the reviewer, it is interesting to determine aromatic protons
content for all samples, especially in the study of the hydrogenation reaction mechanism
of C9 petroleum resin, and this requires a lot of work. We are dedicating to this
meaningful work and the results will be discussed in our next paper. In addition, the
content of this manuscript (A Ni-based catalyst with Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) as a
dispersant supported in a pretreated fluid catalytic cracking (PFC3R) catalyst residue
for C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation) has been complete and is too long.
5. The reviewer's comment: The catalyst support contains zeolite with high acidic
properties. It may be desirable to investigate effect of support on cracking reactions that
result in molecular weight and softening point deterioration.
[Responses] Thank you for your suggestions.
As suggested by the reviewer, we have discussed the effect of support on softening
point deterioration. Yu et al. and Lu et al. [L Yu, D Jiang, J Xu, L Ma, X Li. 2012. Two-Stage
Hydrogenation Modification of C9 Petroleum Resin over NiWS/<U+03B3>-Al2O3 and PdRu/<U+03B3>-Al2O3
Catalysts in Series. China Pet. Process. Pe. 14, 83-89.; J Lu, L Ma, D Jiang, C Lu, Q Zhang, X Li.
2011. Effect of <U+03B3>-Al2O3 Pore Structure on Activity of Supported Pd Catalysts in C9 Petroleum Resin
Hydrogenation. Petrochemical Technology (in Chinese). 40, 1105-1109.] have employed <U+03B3>-
Al2O3 as supports of catalysts for C9 petroleum resin hydrogenation. They found that
softening point decreased slightly by 4% after hydrogenation at the temperature of
275<U+2103>, and in our study, softening point decreased slightly by 6% with the PFC3R as
support after hydrogenation at the temperature of 270<U+2103>, which indicated that the
influence of the support on the decrease of the softening point is not significant. Yu et
al. have also discussed the influence of reaction temperature on softening point. Results
showed that high temperature will cause a certain decrease in softening point. Therefore,
we believe that temperature is the main factor that causes the decrease of softening
point.
We have added a discussion about the influence of the support on softening point
to make the manuscript more rigorous, the detailed revision can be seen in section 3.4
on page 16.
6. The reviewer's comment: One may recommend to present more information on
petroleum resin hydrogenation catalysts in Introduction part. Some patents may be
mentioned, for example 6755963 (US), 5817900 (US), as well as papers (J. Chem. Tech.
Biotechnol. 1992, 53, 365-371; Petroleum Chemistry. 2018, 58, 48–55).
[Responses] Thank you for your suggestions.
We have presented more information on petroleum resin hydrogenation catalysts
in Introduction part. Some patents have been mentioned, for example 6755963 (US),
5817900 (US), as well as papers (J. Chem. Tech. Biotechnol. 1992, 53, 365-371;
Petroleum Chemistry. 2018, 58, 48–55). According to your valuable suggestions, and
the detailed revision can be seen in “Introduction” on page 4 and in “References” (Refs
9-11) on page 19-20.
We tried our best to improve the manuscript and made some changes in the
manuscript. These changes will not influence the content and frame work of the paper.
And here we did not list the changes but marked in red in revised manuscript.
We are very appreciated for the warm work of editor/reviewers, and hope the
correction will meet with approval.
Thanks again for your comment and suggestions, which make our manuscript
more rigorous and scientific.
Society Open
