The catalytic effect of calcium and potassium on CO2
gasification of Shengli lignite: the role of carboxyl
Yanpeng Ban, Yan Wang, Na Li, Runxia He, Keduan Zhi and Quansheng Liu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180717.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180717
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 May 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 July 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180717.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Stoyan Karakashev)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors conducted well done work on studying the catalytic activities of Ca2+ and K+ on
gasification of CO2 of Chinese lignite. I believe that this study could be applied to other types of
lignite. What the authors think about that? The work is well done using various physical methods
for characterization as FTIR for example. The work is recommended for publication.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Chengming Fang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In the present manuscript, Ban and co-workers present their investigation of the catalytic effect of
K and Ca for CO2 gasification of Shengli lignite. This topic is interesting, and might be helpful in
reduction of air pollution in many countries. The experimental methods were described in detail.
The results might be useful for people working in the related fields. The manuscript is framed
well. I’d like to suggest acceptance of the manuscript for publication in RSC advances after
improvements of the English.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180717)
09-Jul-2018
Dear Mr Ban:
Title: The catalytic effect of calcium and potassium on CO2 gasification of Shengli lignite: the role
of carboxyl
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180717
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript before 18-Jul-2018. Please note that the revision deadline
will expire at 00.00am on this date. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let
me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
4
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Eva
Hevia.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors conducted well done work on studying the catalytic activities of Ca2+ and K+ on
gasification of CO2 of Chinese lignite. I believe that this study could be applied to other types of
lignite. What the authors think about that? The work is well done using various physical methods
for characterization as FTIR for example. The work is recommended for publication.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
In the present manuscript, Ban and co-workers present their investigation of the catalytic effect of
K and Ca for CO2 gasification of Shengli lignite. This topic is interesting, and might be helpful in
5
reduction of air pollution in many countries. The experimental methods were described in detail.
The results might be useful for people working in the related fields. The manuscript is framed
well. I’d like to suggest acceptance of the manuscript for publication in RSC advances after
improvements of the English.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180717.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180717.R1)
20-Aug-2018
Dear Mr Ban:
Title: The catalytic effect of calcium and potassium on CO2 gasification of Shengli lignite: the role
of carboxyl
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180717.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Eva
Hevia.
********
RSC Associate Editor
6
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
Manuscript has been revised accordingly to the suggestions of the reviewers. Careful editing of
the manuscript has been detailed in order to improve the clarity and the use of English.
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Quansheng Liu
College of Chemical
Engineering
Inner Mongolia University
of Technology
Huhhot 010051
P. R. China
E-mail: liuqs@imut.edu.cn
Jul 16, 2018
Dear Professor Dr Laura Smith, MRSC,
Thank you very much for your email on 09-Jul-2018, which was about
our manuscript entitled “The catalytic effect of calcium and
potassium on CO2 gasification of Shengli lignite: the role of
carboxyl” [Manuscript ID: RSOS-180717]. We are also very grateful
to the referees for their constructive comments and suggestions, which
are very helpful for improving our article. We have revised the
manuscript on the basis of the comments and suggestions, and a list of
changes and answers to the questions are given in the following pages.
If you have any question, please feel free to contact me. Thank you in
advance for your consideration.
Best wishes
Sincerely yours,
Quansheng Liu
Responses to the Comments of the Reviewers
Reviewer 1:
Comments:
The authors conducted well done work on studying the catalytic
activities of Ca2+ and K+ on gasification of CO2 of Chinese lignite. I
believe that this study could be applied to other types of lignite. What
the authors think about that? The work is well done using various
physical methods for characterization as FTIR for example. The work
is recommended for publication.
Discussion: We thank the referee for the useful advice. We strongly
agree to extend this research to other types of lignite, and we will
seriously consider your suggestion and carry out some related work in
the future studies.
Reviewer: 2
Comments:
In the present manuscript, Ban and co-workers present their
investigation of the catalytic effect of K and Ca for CO2 gasification of
Shengli lignite. This topic is interesting, and might be helpful in
reduction of air pollution in many countries. The experimental
methods were described in detail. The results might be useful for
people working in the related fields. The manuscript is framed well.
I’d like to suggest acceptance of the manuscript for publication in RSC
advances after improvements of the English.
Discussion:
We thank the referee for the advice. Our language problems have been
carefully checked by a professional language editor. Some expressions
were re-organized to make the statements correct and clear to
understand. Detailed revisions were listed below.
Revision:
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 8, the word “In this study” was
deleted.
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 9, the word “…the calcium…”
was revised into “…calcium…”.
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 11, the word “…of potassium”
was revised into “…catalyzed by potassium”.
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 11-13, the original expressions
“Kinetic analysis showed that the activation energy of the calcium
catalytic gasification was much lower than that of potassium catalytic
gasification, which might be the reason for the higher activity of
calcium.”
was revised into
“Kinetic analysis showed that the activation energy of the reaction
catalyzed by calcium was much lower than that catalyzed by
potassium, which was the reason for the higher catalytic of calcium.”.
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 13-15, the original expressions
“FTIR characterization showed that the addition of K+/Ca2+ resulted in
the significant weakening of the characteristic peak for C=O structures
compared with acid-treated SL, and new peaks for carboxylate species
appeared.”
was revised into
“FTIR characterization showed that, compared with acid-treated SL,
the addition of K+/Ca2+ resulted in the significant weakening of C=O
bond, and new peaks attributed to carboxylate species appeared.”.
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 15-16, the original expressions
“By comparing the XPS C1s spectra of different samples, it was
proved that the proportion of C=O decreased after the metal ions were
added. These results may be attributed to the formation of
metal-carboxylate complexes.”
was revised into
“The XPS results exhibited that the numbers of C=O decreased after
the metal ions were added, indicating the formation of
metal-carboxylate complexes.”.
In the Abstract section, Page 1, Line 17-19, the original expressions
“Raman characterization showed that the ID1/G values corresponding to
more structural defects increased, which indicated that the reactivity of
coal samples had a close relationship with amorphous carbon
structures.”
was revised into
“Raman characterization showed that the ID1/G values increased,
suggesting more structural defects, which indicated that the reactivity
of coal samples had a close relation with amorphous carbon
structures.”.
In the Introduction section, Page 1, Line 23, the word “received” was
revised into “attracted”.
In the Introduction section, Page 1, Line 25, the word “in” was
revised into “by”.
In the Introduction section, Page2, Line 30, the word “step” was
revised into “steps”.
In the Introduction section, Page 2, Line 37, the word “process” was
deleted.
In the Abstract section, Page2, Line 37-38, the original expressions
“The reaction between char and H2O and CO2 are the rate-determining
steps.”
was revised into
“The reaction between char and H2O or CO2 is the rate-determining
step.”.
In the Introduction section, Page 2, Line 39, the word “of” was
revised into “with”.
In the Introduction section, Page 2, Line 40, the word
“rate-controlling” was revised into “rate-controlling”.
In the Abstract section, Page 2, Line 41, the original expressions
“…is the key for realizing low-temperature gasification...” was
revised into“…is the key step for low-temperature gasification...”.
In the Abstract section, Page 2, Line 48-49, the original expressions
“…effect on the gasification performance as well as...” was revised
into“…effect on coal gasification as well as...”.
In the Introduction section, Page 3, Line 53, the word “presents” was
revised into “exhibits”.
In the Abstract section, Page 3, Line 55-57, the original expressions
“However, it was still inconsistent about the catalytic effects of
potassium and calcium obtained by different workers because of the
variation in composition and properties for different coals.”
was revised into
“However, the results about the catalytic effects of potassium and
calcium obtained by different researchers were still inconsistent
because of the variation in composition and properties of different
coals.”.
In the Introduction section, Page 3, Line 57, the word “literatures”
was revised into “researchers”.
In the Introduction section, Page 3, Line 58, the word “higher” was
revised into “more remarkable”.
In the Introduction section, Page 3, Line 59, the word “literatures”
was revised into “researchers”.
In the Introduction section, Page 3, Line 63-66, the original
expressions:
“Recently, our investigations showed that the catalytic effects of
calcium were superior to that of potassium on gasification of Chinese
Shengli lignite.[29-30] In this work, it is devoted to the investigation
the interaction of the added K+ and Ca2+ with lignite, and the possible
mechanism for their different performance in catalyzing the
gasification reaction. It was found that the addition of K+ and Ca2+
could cause the structure changes of the lignite, resulting in the
increasing of the structural defects. The added Ca2+ interacted with the
carboxyl structure by both ionic forces and polycarboxylic
coordination, while K+ interacted with carboxyl structure mainly via
ionic forces. The different interaction mode may lead to the difference
in the activity energy during the catalytic gasification, i.e., the lower
activity energy of calcium than potassium, and thus calcium had
higher catalytic activity. Therefore, it was postulated that the changes
in lignite structure provided favorable conditions for the proceeding of
the gasification, and the different interaction mode of K+ and Ca2+ with
the carboxyl structure made Ca2+ have higher catalytic activity to the
gasification reaction.”
was revised into
“Recently, our previous studies showed that the catalytic effects of
calcium were superior to that of potassium on the gasification of
Chinese Shengli lignite.[29-30] In this work, the interaction between
lignite and K+ or Ca2+ is to be investigated, and the possible
mechanism in the catalyzing gasification reaction are attempted to be
studied.”.
In the Experimental section, Page 2, Line 69, the word “samples”
was deleted.
In the Experimental section, Page 4, Line 69, the word “were” was
revised into “was”.
In the Experimental section, Page 3, Line 73, the original
expressions “The demineralized SL sample was prepared by
hydrochloric acid leaching.”
was revised into
“The demineralized SL sample was obtained by leaching with
hydrochloric acid.”.
In the Experimental section, Page 4, Line 79, the word “in the oven”
was deleted.
In the Experimental section, Page 4, Line 85, the original
expressions “The dosages of all metal ions were 5wt% of the weight of
coal sample.” was revised into“The dosages of all metal ions were
5wt% of total coal sample.”.
In the Experimental section, Page 4, Line 90, the word “from” was
revised into “of”.
In the Experimental section, Page 5-6, Line 123-125, the original
expressions “Surface composition of the samples was determined by
XPS by PHI-5400 spectrometer from America equipped with Al K-a
radiation. The analysis area was 300 µm×300 µm. The degree of
vacuum was 3×10-7 Pa. The calibration of the main C1s peak was
carried out to at approximately 284.6 eV.”
was revised into
“Surface composition of the samples was determined by XPS
equipped with Al K-a radiation using PHI-5400 spectrometer from
America. The analysis area was 300 µm×300 µm. The degree of
vacuum was 3×10-7 Pa. The calibration was performed using the main
C1s peak at 284.6 eV.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 129, the word “is”
was revised into “was”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 129, the word
“increasing” was revised into “increase”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 130, the word
“all samples” was revised into “each sample”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 131, the word
“conversions” was revised into “conversion”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 132, the word
“compared with nearly completely conversion” was revised into “than
those”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 133, the word
“conversion” was revised into “conversions”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 133, the word
“was” was revised into “were”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 135, the word
“were” was revised into “was”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 142, the word
“expressing” was revised into “for evaluating”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 146, the word
“present” was revised into “exhibited”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 147, the word
“The added” was deleted.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 6, Line 149, the word
“The added” was deleted.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 7, Line 149, the word “It
was proved that” was deleted.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 7, Line 164, the word
“fitting” was revised into “fittings”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 7, Line 168, the word
“The calcium addition” was revised into “The addition of calcium”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 177-178, the
original expressions “The interaction of calcium and potassium cations
with inherent oxygen functional group within the lignite samples was
confirmed by infrared spectroscopy.”
was revised into
“The interaction between calcium or potassium cations and the
inherent oxygen functional group within the lignite samples was
confirmed by the infrared spectroscopy.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 182, the word
“…aliphatic -CH, -CH2, and -CH3 stretching vibrations” was revised
into “…stretching vibrations of aliphatic -CH, -CH2, and -CH3”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 183, the word “It
may be ascertained that the infrared spectrum…” was revised into “It
may be confirmed that the wave numbers…”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 187, the word
“between the C-O…” was revised into “between the bands of C-O…”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 188, the word
“for” was revised into “because”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 190, the word
“have successfully” was deleted.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 191-192, the
original expressions “The differential FT-IR spectra of the samples
treated by acid, SL+ and SL++ from SL sample are mainly increase of
band intensity near 1700 cm-1.”
was revised into
“The peak intensity of SL+ and SL++ were increased at 1700 cm-1.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 194, the word
“were” was revised into “was”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 8, Line 196, the word
“can be” was revised into “was”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 198-199, the
original expressions “The addition of Ca2+ and K+ bring out the
decreasing of separation of the FTIR bands <U+2206>v due to the
metal-carboxylate interactions.”
was revised into
“The addition of Ca2+ and K+ results in the decrease of the FTIR band
separation <U+2206>v due to the metal-carboxylate interactions.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 213, the word
“increasing” was revised into “increase”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 213, the word
“IG/Iall reflects…” was revised into “The ratio of IG/Iall reflects…”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 215, the word “a”
was revised into “some”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 216, the word
“IG/Iall gradually…” was revised into “the ration of IG/Iall gradually…”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 220, the word
“were” was revised into “was”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 9, Line 220, the word
“relationship” was revised into “relation”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 223, the original
expressions “XPS C1s spectrum was used to characterize the surface
elemental compositions of coals.”
was revised into
“The main C1s XPS spectrum was used to characterize the surface
elemental composition of coals.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 225, the word
“and the peak belongings were” was revised into “as”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 225, the
sentence “The XPS C1s data of samples are shown in Table 5.” was
deleted.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 230, the word
“increasing in the contents” was revised into “increase”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 231-232, the
original expressions “The combination of the metals and COO-
functional group led to the structures of the coal samples more
disorder.”
was revised into
“The combination of the metals and COO- functional group led to
more disorder of the coal structure of the samples.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 233, the original
expressions “Possible interaction mode of K+ and Ca2+ with the
carboxyl structure”
was revised into
“Possible interaction between K+ or Ca2+ and the carboxyl structure.”.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 10, Line 240, the word
“hypothesized as” was deleted.
In the Results and discussion section, Page 11, Line 248 the word
“as” was revised into “decreased to”.
In the Conclusion section, Page 11, Line 248 the word “gave” was
revised into “exhibited”.
In the Conclusion section, Page 11, Line 260-262 the following
sentence was added.
“It is believed that this result could be applied to all low rank coal with
high oxygen functional group, especially carboxyl structure.”
Society Open
