Domestication and tameness: brain gene expression in red
junglefowl selected for less fear of humans suggests effects
on reproduction and immunology
Johan Bélteky, Beatrix Agnvall, Martin Johnsson, Dominic Wright and Per Jensen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160033.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160033
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 30 June 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 30 June 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160033.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Anna Kukekova)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I suggest provide more detailed expression data in the supplementary table 1.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see the file attached. See Appendix A.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This work presents an interesting test on the correlated responses to tameness associated with
chicken domestication. I would like the authors strengthen and clarify several issues before
recommend the manuscript to get published.
First, the authors should give more details on the role of the hypothalamus in the response of
fear;
Second, more details should be given on how to tell the chicken fear or not;
Third, Line 85-87, make clear the findings;
Fourth, the author should discuss whether five generation is enough for the fixed of certain traits
and whether this affects the final conclusion.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160033)
14-Jun-2016
Dear Mr Bélteky
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160033 entitled
"Domestication and tameness: Brain gene expression in Red Junglefowl selected for less fear of
humans suggests effects on reproduction and immunology" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160033
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
4
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Jun-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
5
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Two reviewers have reevaluated your manuscript and are in principle happy with your
resubmission but provide a few small suggestions for clarification, including in the
supplementary material, that I would like you to include.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see the file attached.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This work presents an interesting test on the correlated responses to tameness associated with
chicken domestication. I would like the authors strengthen and clarify several issues before
recommend the manuscript to get published.
First, the authors should give more details on the role of the hypothalamus in the response of
fear;
Second, more details should be given on how to tell the chicken fear or not;
Third, Line 85-87, make clear the findings;
Fourth, the author should discuss whether five generation is enough for the fixed of certain traits
and whether this affects the final conclusion.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160033)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
The manuscript by Belteky et al., describes differences in gene expression among
brain samples of Red Junglefowl collected from two populations selected,
separately, for low and high fear response, and a population not specifically selected
for behavior. The study provides a novel insight into complex changes associated
with selection for reduced fear of humans which is considered to represent an early
stage of animal domestication process. The manuscript is well written and the
discussion section nicely integrates results obtained in the study with previous
publications on genetic mapping and genome sequence analysis in chickens.
Specific comments:
Introduction:
1. The domestication phenotype discussed in the first paragraph is very relevant to
the domestication syndrome (Wilkins et al., 2014) but this concept is not mentioned
in the manuscript.
2. Page 4, line 63: the study by Kukekova et al., 2011 was done using tame and
aggressive populations of foxes.
3. Page 4, lines 69-70: the following statement is not clear: “…variation in brain
expression was considerably higher than variation in DNA-sequence,…”.
Material and methods:
1. Page 6, lines 117-118 and page 7, line 129: the authors stated that 24 individuals
were used in the study but the number of samples listed corresponds to 40
individuals.
2. Page 7, line 121: it is not clear if the whole hypothalamus or some other kind of
samples were used for RNA extraction.
3. I suggest providing more details on the General Linear Model analysis.
4. There is no description of the custom made chicken gene expression array. It is
not clear if the Supplementary Table 1 provides a complete list of probes from this
array.
4. Page 9, line 186: it is not explained how the quality check of the gene expression
data was performed.
Results:
1. Page 11, line 209: Fig 1 B, C should be Fig 1 C, D?
2. The second paragraph states that no differentially expressed genes were
identified between the founders of the two selected populations but the expression
data for these individuals is not presented.
3. I suggest using “high fear” and “low fear” instead of “high” and “low”.
4. The study uses both male and female samples and the manuscript presents the
combined analysis of both sexes. Would it be interesting to analyze two sexes
separately?
5. The number of genes included into qPCR experiments is relatively modest.
Legends:
No legends for figures, tables, and supplementary materials were available for the
review.
Anna Kukekova,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Dear Editors and Reviewers,
On behalf of my co-authors I am pleased to enclose the revised version of the manuscript RSOS-
160033, “Domestication and tameness: Brain gene expression in Red Junglefowl selected for less fear of
humans suggests effects on reproduction and immunology”.
We are grateful for the thorough review and useful suggestions and feedback by both editors and
reviewers 1 and 2, comments that have helped us improve the manuscript. Below, we have stated how
all the comments were addressed and the manuscript has been revised accordingly.
Yours sincerely,
Johan Bélteky
Reviewer: 1
Introduction:
1. The domestication phenotype discussed in the first paragraph is very relevant to the domestication
syndrome (Wilkins et al., 2014) but this concept is not mentioned in the manuscript.
>>> Thank you for the comment. We have added the requested citation, and in addition some text to
describe the concept in more detail.
2. Page 4, line 63: the study by Kukekova et al., 2011 was done using tame and aggressive populations
of foxes.
>>> Corrected “unselected” to “aggressive”.
3. Page 4, lines 69-70: the following statement is not clear: “…variation in brain expression was
considerably higher than variation in DNA-sequence,…”.
>>> Clarified that gene expression was compared with transcript sequence differences, implying that
expression variation is more common than nucleotide variation.
Material and methods:
1. Page 6, lines 117-118 and page 7, line 129: the authors stated that 24 individuals were used in the
study but the number of samples listed corresponds to 40 individuals.
>>> Sorry for the typo, the sentences now state the correct number of individuals.
2. Page 7, line 121: it is not clear if the whole hypothalamus or some other kind of samples were used
for RNA extraction.
>>> All brain tissue from the animal were saved for storage. The last sentence in the paragraph
indicate that hypothalamus was used, as clean as we could get in from frozen samples without risking
RNA degradation from thawing.
3. I suggest providing more details on the General Linear Model analysis.
>>> Thank you for the suggestion. To give some more details, we added the statistical tool used for the
analysis and stated that we also looked at interactions between the main factors.
4. There is no description of the custom made chicken gene expression array. It is not clear if the
Supplementary Table 1 provides a complete list of probes from this array.
>>> The full name of the array along with ArrayExpress accession is now provided, with a short
description of the array design. Supplementary Table 1 is referenced in the results section as the
significant transcript differences between high and low fear groups in the fifth generation. The table
legend would have helped in reading the table, and I am terrible sorry the legends were not provided.
4. Page 9, line 186: it is not explained how the quality check of the gene expression data was
performed.
>>> Briefly explained what measures were taken to control the array quality after scanning.
Results:
1. Page 11, line 209: Fig 1 B, C should be Fig 1 C, D?
>>> Thank you for pointing that out, the figure reference has now been corrected.
2. The second paragraph states that no differentially expressed genes were identified between the
founders of the two selected populations but the expression data for these individuals is not presented.
>>> Expanded the paragraph with additional information about the analysis we performed on the
parental generation.
3. I suggest using “high fear” and “low fear” instead of “high” and “low”.
>>> Very good suggestions, changes have been made throughout the MS to specify that it is high and
low fear levels that is referred to.
4. The study uses both male and female samples and the manuscript presents the combined analysis of
both sexes. Would it be interesting to analyze two sexes separately?
>>> Looking for sex differences would most certainly be interesting. However, for this study and based
on the sample sizes we have with all groups, to fully use the potential of the dataset we opted for
analyzing the sexes together when comparing our data with previous findings. We did a comparison of
high and low fear males and females separately and added a paragraph to the results section.
5. The number of genes included into qPCR experiments is relatively modest.
>>> Four genes is a modest number indeed. The purpose of the qPCR was to determine if the direction
of changes between high and low fear strains could be confirmed, and with our study design the number
seemed sufficient to achieve that verification. Had the goal been to study candidate genes there would
have been need for a more extensive testing with qPCR.
Legends:
No legends for figures, tables, and supplementary materials were available for the review.
>>> Once again, really sorry for that. I am pretty sure I uploaded them the way I was supposed to, and
I hope the missing legends did not cause major difficulties in interpreting the results and reviewing the
MS.
Anna Kukekova,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Reviewer: 2
First, the authors should give more details on the role of the hypothalamus in the response of fear;
>>> We expanded the paragraph on the role of hypothalamus in coordinating fear and involvement in
stress responses.
Second, more details should be given on how to tell the chicken fear or not;
>>> A very good point. Since the basis of the experiment is to select based on fear, determining the
individual fear in the chicken is crucial for selection. A brief description of the fear of human test was
added, the ethogram and exact scoring of fear can be found in the referenced citations were it is
thoroughly described.
Third, Line 85-87, make clear the findings;
>>> Expanded on the findings from the previous study.
Fourth, the author should discuss whether five generation is enough for the fixed of certain traits and
whether this affects the final conclusion.
>>> Thank you for pointing that out. That discussion is in fact very crucial, and we added a paragraph
in the discussion to put emphasis on the conclusions that can be drawn from the results of the study.
Society Open
