Influence of solvents in the preparation of cobalt sulfide for
supercapacitors
Yedluri Anil Kumar, S. Srinivasa Rao, Dinah Punnoose, Chebrolu Venkata Tulasivarma,
Chandu V. V. M. Gopi, Kandasamy Prabakar and Hee-Je Kim
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170427.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170427
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170427.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this paper the author’s prepared cobalt sulfide using chemical bath deposition method with
different solvents such as water, ethanol and water:ethanol for super capacitor application. It is a
nice piece of work and acceptable after minor corrections.
1. The author’s should explain the role of solvents on the performance of the super
capacitors.
2. “Abstract” is missing from the manuscript. The authors should add it.
3. It is better to provide electrochemical impedance spectroscopy results to analyze the
electrode resistance
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper studied the supercapacitor performance using CoS as electrode material. Three
solvents were used to prepare the electrode materials, and three CoS materials were carefully
compared in the paper. The result demonstrates clearly the importance of the choice of the
solvent to the supercapacitor performance. The paper is recommended to be published with
major revision after the questions listed below being addressed:
1. On Figure 5, all current density should use the unit of ‘mA/g’ instead of ‘mA’. Please
normalize the current by the mass of electrode active materials.
2. Although the discharge curve is more important on GCD curve, the charging curve must
also be reported. The authors should report the data from 0-10s on Figure 6.
3. In order to get published, the authors should plot all figures into a same format,
Especially, Figure 2. it is distorted and unable to read the x,y label values!
3
4. It can be understood that using high current density to test the cycling stability will save
experimental time. But 100A/g is really far beyond the testing region. Comparing the capacitance
of current density 1.5 and 9 A/g, the degradation of capacitance is already obvious. The referee
suggest the authors test the cycling stability under the current density of 10 A/g. It will not take a
very long time for supercapacitor, but it will make your cycling stability result more reasonable.
5. The referee also suggests the authors be more careful when using the ‘high performance’
to describe their supercapacitor. It is correct that the capacitance using ethanol solvent is higher
than other two solvents, but 41 F/g in aqueous system is a low performance comparing to the
majority of the reported values.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170427)
11-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Anil Kumar,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Influence of solvents in the preparation of cobalt sulfide for
high performance supercapacitors") have now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions
which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this
decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 03-Aug-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170427
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In this paper the author’s prepared cobalt sulfide using chemical bath deposition method with
different solvents such as water, ethanol and water:ethanol for super capacitor application. It is a
nice piece of work and acceptable after minor corrections.
1. The author’s should explain the role of solvents on the performance of the super
capacitors.
2. “Abstract” is missing from the manuscript. The authors should add it.
3. It is better to provide electrochemical impedance spectroscopy results to analyze the
electrode resistance
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This paper studied the supercapacitor performance using CoS as electrode material. Three
solvents were used to prepare the electrode materials, and three CoS materials were carefully
compared in the paper. The result demonstrates clearly the importance of the choice of the
solvent to the supercapacitor performance. The paper is recommended to be published with
major revision after the questions listed below being addressed:
1. On Figure 5, all current density should use the unit of ‘mA/g’ instead of ‘mA’. Please
normalize the current by the mass of electrode active materials.
2. Although the discharge curve is more important on GCD curve, the charging curve must
also be reported. The authors should report the data from 0-10s on Figure 6.
3. In order to get published, the authors should plot all figures into a same format,
Especially, Figure 2. it is distorted and unable to read the x,y label values!
4. It can be understood that using high current density to test the cycling stability will save
experimental time. But 100A/g is really far beyond the testing region. Comparing the capacitance
of current density 1.5 and 9 A/g, the degradation of capacitance is already obvious. The referee
suggest the authors test the cycling stability under the current density of 10 A/g. It will not take a
very long time for supercapacitor, but it will make your cycling stability result more reasonable.
5. The referee also suggests the authors be more careful when using the ‘high performance’
to describe their supercapacitor. It is correct that the capacitance using ethanol solvent is higher
than other two solvents, but 41 F/g in aqueous system is a low performance comparing to the
majority of the reported values.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170427)
See Appendix A.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170427.R1)
03-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Anil Kumar,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Influence of solvents in the preparation
of cobalt sulfide for supercapacitors" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_5
Thank you for implementing the reviewer corrections. I am happy to recommend publication.
pendix A
Response to Referee’s:
nuscript ID: RSOS-170427
TLE: Influence of solvents in the preparation of cobalt sulfide for supercapacitors
tor, Royal Society Open Science,
ar Sir,
ase find herewith the revised manuscript with above details to be considered for publication in
oyal Society Open Science”. We appreciate referees’ comments and have revised our
nuscript strictly according to their instructions. The corrections are highlighted in red color in
revised manuscript.
Sincerely
Authors
thors’ response to referees’ comments:
eree: 1
mments to the Author
viewer:1
this paper the author’s prepared cobalt sulfide using chemical bath deposition method
h different solvents such as water, ethanol and water: ethanol for super capacitor
lication. It is a nice piece of work and acceptable after minor corrections.
The author’s should explain the role of solvents on the performance of the super
acitors.
We comply with the referee’s comments. We have used pure deionized water as the solvent,
ledged nanoflakes formed because of its high nucleation and fast increasing rate, implying
the electrochemical reversibility was not good if only water was solvent. From the results,
ether with the SEM images it can be concluded that with the employment of ethanol as a
vent, active material can grow more firmly on the Ni foam substrate. In other words, the
tact between the material and the substrate for the sample prepared employing ethanol is
re intimate than that of the samples prepared in water and water/ethanol. It is observed that
interlaced nanoparticles were uniformly coated over almost the entire skeleton of the Ni foam
strate. The unique feature as material grown in the presence of ethanol is that each
oparticle has its own electrical/mechanical contact with the current collector. The
centrations of Water:Ethanol, the nanoparticles were distributed and coverage was not good
low surface area, which are able slow transportation and slow accessible sites for ions. This
ulted in poor electrochemically reactivity between the electrode and electrolyte.
Abstract” is missing from the manuscript. The authors should add it.
We appreciate the referee’s comments. Thank you for the suggestions. The mentioned abstract
included in the revised manuscript as follows:
n this study, cobalt sulfide (CoS) electrodes are synthesized using various solvents such as
er, ethanol, and a combination of the two via a facile chemical bath deposition method on Ni
m. The crystalline nature, chemical states, and surface morphology of the prepared CoS
oparticles are characterized using X-ray diffraction, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy,
nning electron microscopy, and transition electron microscopy. The electrochemical
perties of CoS electrodes are also evaluated using cyclic voltammetry, galvanostatic charge-
charge, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. When utilized as an electrode for a
ercapacitor, CoS prepared with ethanol as a solvent exhibits a capacitance of 41.36 F/g at 1.5
, which is significantly better than that prepared using water and ethanol (31.66 and 18.94 F/g
.5 A/g, respectively). This superior capacitance is attributed to the ideal surface morphology
he solvent, which allows for easy diffusion of electrolyte ions into the inner region of the
ctrode. High electrical conduction enables a high rate capability. These results suggest that
S nanoparticles are highly promising for energy storage applications as well as photocatalysis,
ctrocatalysis, water splitting, and solar cells, among others. These results show that the CoS is
mising positive electrode materials for practical supercapacitor.
YWORDS: Cobalt sulfide; Supercapacitors; Energy storage devices; cyclic voltammetry;
arge-discharge.
t is better to provide electrochemical impedance spectroscopy results to analyze the
ctrode resistance.
We comply with the referee’s comments. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis
conducted in the revision time and the results are provided in the revised manuscript.
ure 7. Impedance Nyquist plots of CoS electrode with different solvents Ethanol, Water and
ter:Ethanol.
EIS measurements were further carried out to investigate the electrochemical behaviour of
ious solvents of the CoS electrode. Figure 7 shows the Nyquist plots of the various electrodes
r the frequency range of 100 mHz to 500 kHz. Figure 7 depicts that the ethanol solvent of
S electrode exhibited a small semicircle in the high frequency range and more vertical line in
low frequency range than the water and Water:Ethanol as a solvents, implying good
acitive behaviour with the ion diffusion transport and interfacial charge transfer resistance.
se results demonstrated that the combination of electron transfer and fast ion diffusion
ulted in remarkably electrochemical performance of the ethanol as a solvent of CoS electrode.
viewer: 2
mments to the Author(s) this paper studied the supercapacitor performance using CoS
electrode material. Three solvents were used to prepare the electrode materials and
ee CoS materials were carefully compared in the paper. The result demonstrates clearly
importance of the choice of the solvent to the supercapacitor performance. The paper is
ommended to be published with major revision after the questions listed below being
ressed:
On Figure 5, all current density should use the unit of ‘mA/g’ instead of ‘mA’. Please
malize the current by the mass of electrode active materials.
We appreciate the referee’s comments. In the revised manuscript we have provided the current
sity unit as the mA/g.
ure 5. (a) A comparison Cyclic Voltammetry curves of the Water, Ethanol, Water: Ethanol;
a solvents of the CoS electrodes at the scan rate of 30 mV/s. CV curves of the (b) Water, (c)
anol and (d) Water: Ethanol at different scan rates (10-100 mV/s) in 1 M KOH solution.
lthough the discharge curve is more important on GCD curve, the charging curve must
o be reported. The authors should report the data from 0-10s on Figure 6.
We comply with the referee’s comments. In the revision time, the charging and discharging
ves are reported in the GCD analysis.
ure 6. Galvanostatic charge and discharge curves of the (a) A comparison of various solvents
h as Water, Ethanol, Water: Ethanol at the current density of 1.5 A/g, (b) Water, (c) Ethanol
(d) Water: Ethanol; as a solvents of CoS electrode at different current densities (1.5- 9 A/g)
M KOH solution on Ni foam.
In order to get published, the authors should plot all figures into a same format,
ecially, Figure 2. It is distorted and unable to read the x, y label values!
As per the reviewer’s suggestions, we have plotted the all figures in the same format in the
ised manuscript. Mainly, we have revised the Figure 2 in the revision time.
ure 2. Energy- dispersive X- ray spectroscopy of CoS electrode with different solvents (a)
ter (b) Ethanol and (c) Water: Ethanol, on Ni foam substrate.
t can be understood that using high current density to test the cycling stability will save
erimental time. But 100A/g is really far beyond the testing region. Comparing the
acitance of current density 1.5 and 9 A/g, the degradation of capacitance is already
ious. The referees suggest the authors test the cycling stability under the current density
0 A/g. It will not take a very long time for supercapacitor, but it will make your cycling
bility result more reasonable.
We appreciate the referee’s comments. In the revision time we have provided the cycling
ility of the electrode at the 6 A/g. The relevant data is shown in below:
ure 8 Cycling performance of the ethanol based CoS electrode at a high current density of 6
-1 for 2000 cycles.
The long term cycling stability of electrode is also most important for practical
ercapacitor applications. Figure 8 shows electrochemical stability of CoS electrode as a
vent of ethanol by GCD at a current density of 6 A/g for 2000 cycles. For the ethanol solvent
he CoS electrode the real capacitance is 31.2 F/g in the first cycle, and it gradually decrease
5.1 F/g after 2000 cycles, showing 19.2% loss after 2000 cycles, indicating the good cycle
perty as an good electrode material for electrochemical supercapacitor.
he referee also suggests the authors be more careful when using the ‘high performance’
describe their supercapacitor. It is correct that the capacitance using ethanol solvent is
her than other two solvents, but 41 F/g in aqueous system is a low performance
paring to the majority of the reported values.
We really appreciate your suggestion and it is not correct sentence “Influence of solvents in
preparation of cobalt sulfide for high performance supercapacitors”.
w we changed the title from “Influence of solvents in the preparation of cobalt sulfide for
h performance supercapacitors” to “Influence of solvents in the preparation of cobalt
fide for supercapacitor” in the revised manuscript.
Society Open
