Sex ratio effects on reproductive strategies in humans
Ryan Schacht, Monique Borgerhoff Mulder
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140402.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140402
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st resubmission date: 24 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd resubmission date: 29 November 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 8 December 2014
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140085.R0(Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1(François-Xavier Dechaume-
Moncharmont)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Data not yet accessible
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper is a study about mating strategy in human population. It addresses an important
question about the origin of sex roles in human. It is a rather neat and cleverly designed study
which deserves publication in a high impact journal. The introduction and discussion section are
based on an abundant, carefully chosen and suitable evolutionary literature (which is, sadly, not
so common in many anthropological studies).
Major comments:
(1) My first comments are related to the statistical analysis. I totally agree with the authors about
their choice of using AIC approaches to compare the ability of the two hypotheses to explain the
observed mating efforts. This approach is perfectly legitimate in such a case. However, the
authors did not use the full power of such analysis, while citing the reference book about it
(Burnham and Anderson 2002). I would recommend them reading the following introductory
paper for clear examples of analysis and result presentation: Symonds and Moussalli (2011). A
brief guide to model selection, multimodel inference and model averaging in behavioural ecology
using Akaike's information criterion. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 65(1):13-21
More specifically, the authors clearly overstate some of their results when they conclude:
“FOR WOMEN there is no effect of ASR on SOI” (lines 154-155) or “the behavior OF MEN varies
in predictable ways with the ASR” (lines 170-171). Nothing in their analysis (as presented in the
current version of the MS) allows concluding to a non-significant effect of the ASR on the women
SOI. The fact that the interaction between ASR and sex appear to be statistically supported (Tab.
2), is not sufficient to conclude that the men behavior is affected by the ASR while the women
behavior is not.
In addition, I regret that the authors focus on only four models:
Model 1: SOI ~ sex
Model 2: SOI ~ sex*ASR
Model 1+ : SOI ~ sex + relationship.status
Model 2+ : SOI ~ sex*ASR + relationship.status
Following Burnham and Anderson (2002) or Symonds and Moussalli (2011), I would have been
very interested in interpreting the full set of biologically meaningful models (for example those
including only additive terms,without interactions) and not only a small fraction of it. Several R
packages such as MuMin allow quick and efficient comparisons of competing models.
(2) My second major comment is related to a possible confounding effect link to the age structure.
It is possible that the reported difference in mating behavior was not linked to the adult sex-ratio
(ASR) but to a difference in age structure between the communities. It is possible that older
individuals (with previous reproductive experience) have different SOI. I thus recommend the
authors to either include in their analysis (see point 1, above) an effect of age or, at least, to test
for differences in age structure between communities.
(3) My last question concerns the stability across time of the ASR. I understand that men or
women temporarily leave their village to seek job opportunity outside their community. As the
ASR is the main hypothesis investigated to explain the mating behavior is this study, I would like
to know how variable this ASR is across season. It is not sufficient to consider the ASR as an
invariable parameter within a given community. As the survey was carried over a 16 month
period, one should easily find some data on the variation of ASR and report it in Tab. 1, at least.
Minor comments:
Line 35: what does PI means?
3
Reference list formatting: there is too many capital letters in article titles.
Dr FX Dechaume-Moncharmont
Evolutionary ecology group
UMR CNRS 6282 Biogéosciences
University of Burgundy
6 Bd Gabriel, 21000 Dijon, France
E-mail: fx.dechaume@u-bourgogne.fr
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Tamas Szekely)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This work joins a growing number of studies that investigate the influence of social environment
on behaviour in humans and non-human animals. It reports that male reproductive strategies are
related to adult sex ratios (ASRs). This is an important result suggesting that a somehow
overlooked aspect of sexual selection, ie ASR, does modulate sexual strategies.
The work is carried out carefully, and the MS well written except in regards to the following
issues.
1. Terminology. SOI is not really a user-friendly acronym. I wonder whether labelling this
variable simply as "mating strategy" or something alog this line would make the study more
accesible for a wider audience.
Similarly, "low" and "high" sex ratios are rarely used outside the primate and social science
literature, and I wonder whether it would make more sense adopting "male-biased" vs "female-
biased" usage - as done in pretty much all walks of evolutionary biology. Humans are afterall just
one, somehow weird, species.
2. Data collection and statistics. I found the method description and statistical justification not
very helpful. Given that SOI is the major response, it needs to be explained how it was collected
and possibly verified. What were the specific interview questions? how was the overall score
calculated?
4
I'm a bit confused what was the unit of statistical analyses: individual males and females that
were interviewed? Or subset of villages somehow selected from the ones that were interviewed?
I presume, mating strategies might relate to the age of males and females, the size of their
household, and the number of their children. Were these potentially confounding effects inluded
in the models?
What was the justification for using 4 models, and not, let say, 2 or 6?
Fig 2 is quite fuzzy in my version, and not clear how they were picked given that 4 statistical
models were presented.
I really don't like trumpeting my own horn, although perhaps would be a good idea citing the
ASR review that recently came out in J Evol Biol, and an early exposure of the population-level
thinking for mating and parenting decisions (Székely et al. 2000. Mating patterns, sexual selection
and parental care: an integrative approach. IN Vertebrate mating systems, M. Apollonio, M.
Festa-Bianchet & D. Mainardi (eds), World Science Press, London pp 194-223).
Tamas Szekely
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140402)
09-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Schacht,
Manuscript ID RSOS-140085 entitled "Sex-Differentiated Behavior in Humans: Sex Ratio Effects
on Reproductive Strategies" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted within 6 months.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140402.R1(Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1(François-Xavier Dechaume-
Moncharmont)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The original data does not seem to be freely available at this stage.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have convincingly responded to all my previous comments. They have made
considerable effort to modify the MS in order to cope with my concerns. I am now satisfied with
the MS in its present form, and I still consider that this is an important study which deserves
publication in a major journal.
My only last concern is related to the availability of the dataset. Unless I am mistaken, the
original data does not seem to be freely available at this stage. I still consider giving the
opportunity to colleagues to access original data will be rewarding for future studies (including
meta-analysis), and I therefore recommend the authors to follow the journal recommendation
about disclosure of supporting data.
FX Dechaume-Moncharmont
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140402.R1)
18-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Schacht
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140402 entitled
"Sex Ratio Effects on Reproductive Strategies in Humans" has been accepted for publication in
6
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
As discussed previously please provide details of IRB and local approval in this section (you
should state that the UC Davis IRB, the University of Guyana and the Ministry of Amerindian
Affairs, Guyana granted approval)
• Data accessibility
As discussed previously, it is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made
publicly and permanently available either as supplementary information or preferably in a
suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state where the article's
supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where possible of
where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc
can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section should list
the database, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been
made publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a
DOI should also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-Nov-2014). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
7
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
r Charlotte Wray,
are very thankful for the careful reading given our paper, and your evaluation of its potential
Royal Society Open Science. In our response we place the reviewers’ and the Subject
or’s comments in blue, and insert our responses in black.
ject Editor comments:
first reviewer comments partly on statistical design and partly on over-interpretation of
ults.
ree with the first reviewer that the introduction is an excellent and rare review of the field.
owever the authors use the term "sexual selection" throughout when they mean "mate
ice." Sexual selection requires dependence on sexually dimorphic secondary features, as
win (who invented the concept) pointed out. 2) Their caricature of his 'ardent male, coy
ale' hypothesis substantially underappreciates the complexity of his thinking, and they may
h to read The Descent of Man for a more nuanced view.
Sexual selection’ appears 7 times in the first 3 pages of the manuscript. Most usages are
wed by ‘theory’ which seems appropriate, given that mate preferences constitute an
ortant component of sexual selection and that the theory tested in this paper derives directly
new advances in sexual selection theory (e.g., Kokko, et al. 2006). However in one place
use the term in a way that may be of concern to the reviewer:
in nonhumans (Clutton-Brock 2007), patterns of sexual selection on men and women can
highly variable (Borgerhoff Mulder 2009; Brown, et al. 2009; Scelza 2011).” LINES 49-50.
appreciate that sexual selection only occurs when fitness variance is associated with
ually dimorphic secondary traits. This has repeatedly been stressed from, for example,
fen’s cautioning chapter in Clutton Brock’s reproductive success book (Grafen 1988) to, for
mple, the recent debates about the value of the opportunity for selection (e.g., Klug, et al.
0; Krakauer, et al. 2011). But we do not see how our sentence quoted above violates the
m the “sexual selection on men and women can be highly variable”. Furthermore we believe
adding a series of clauses, e.g. “sexual selection can be quite variable as a result of both
rences in fitness variability and the covariation with sexually dimorphic traits”, while
urate, would be a distraction from our more simple point. Accordingly we make no change to
MS. However if we have misunderstood the reviewer’s meaning we are happy to consider
appropriate edit.
We agree that Darwin’s view was highly nuanced. He spent considerable time collecting and
cribing diversity in morphology and behavior across taxa. We want to emphasize, however,
for many evolutionary social scientists and evolutionary psychologists the key take home
ssage from the “Descent of Man” was that males benefit from eagerness and females from
rcising restraint in reproduction. A portion of a representative statement is quoted in the text
ur MS, here it is in full:
m an evolutionary perspective, sex differences in sociosexuality should be consistently
erved across human cultures, in part because of fundamental differences in the evolved
oductive strategies of men and women.” p. 248 (Schmitt 2005)
while Darwin’s views were indeed more nuanced, what was subsequently embraced by
earchers was the rule of thumb that males are generally ardent and females coy. The effect
has had on the field is enormous (Brown, et al. 2009; Dewsbury 2005; Hrdy 1986) and is
t we are challenging in this paper. To avert the possible misunderstanding that we are
ming that Darwin’s arguments were simplistic (which we suspect is the reviewer’s concern,
amend the first sentence in the abstract:
aracterizations of coy females and ardent males are rooted in models of sexual selection
are increasingly outdated.” Lines 10-11
have also modified our text in the second paragraph accordingly: “While Darwin was careful
uance this viewpoint…” Lines 33-34
tly, to avoid misunderstanding, we revise our definitely misleading original statement, our
l mention of Darwin, from:
his respect, contemporary evolutionary anthropology is advanced well beyond the view
ressed by Darwin and interpretations based on Bateman.”
his respect, contemporary evolutionary anthropology is advanced well beyond overly
plistic interpretations of the work of Darwin and Bateman (see Dewsbury 2005).” (Lines 190-
)
hort, we did not mean to imply that we were challenging Darwin, but instead the
rsimplified views that stem from his work and result in sexual stereotypes.
rt from this it is difficult for them to draw the conclusions they do, in my view, because in
one of their populations were females more numerous than males, and it was a much
er one than the others. If more such populations showed that females in greater numbers do
same things than when males are in greater numbers, then there is no sex difference in
se behaviors. I am not convinced that their sample is adequate to present more than a one-
d approach.
his paper we follow standard scientific procedure by examining how behavioral traits are
ibited in populations with varying sex ratios (e.g., Liker, et al. 2013; Liker, et al. 2014;
acht, et al. 2014), providing what reviewer 1 calls a “neat and cleverly-designed” study of the
act of sex ratios. If we observe variation in sociosexuality scores in response to an
emental change in ASR in the predicted direction we have support, albeit not conclusive
ence insofar as the data (like most behavioral ecological studies) are correlational, for the
cific prediction derived from the theoretical model. The reviewer is correct, that a larger
ple of populations (>8) would strengthen statistical inference, but the sampling strategy and
earch design themselves are neither flawed nor unconventional. We therefore see no need
evise the MS, with the exception of adding a clause to the effect that 8 populations is a
tively small sample size.
ile a larger sample of populations would of course add to the strength of our inference…”
s 178-179
iewer: 1
s paper is a study about mating strategy in human population. It addresses an important
stion about the origin of sex roles in human. It is a rather neat and cleverly designed study
ch deserves publication in a high impact journal. The introduction and discussion section are
ed on an abundant, carefully chosen and suitable evolutionary literature (which is, sadly, not
ommon in many anthropological studies).
or comments:
My first comments are related to the statistical analysis. I totally agree with the authors about
r choice of using AIC approaches to compare the ability of the two hypotheses to explain the
erved mating efforts. This approach is perfectly legitimate in such a case. However, the
hors did not use the full power of such analysis, while citing the reference book about it
rnham and Anderson 2002). I would recommend them reading the following introductory
er for clear examples of analysis and result presentation: Symonds and Moussalli (2011). A
f guide to model selection, multimodel inference and model averaging in behavioral ecology
g Akaike's information criterion. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 65(1):13-21
More specifically, the authors clearly overstate some of their results when they conclude:
R WOMEN there is no effect of ASR on SOI” (lines 154-155) or “the behavior OF MEN
es in predictable ways with the ASR” (lines 170-171). Nothing in their analysis (as presented
e current version of the MS) allows concluding to a non-significant effect of the ASR on the
men SOI. The fact that the interaction between ASR and sex appear to be statistically
ported (Tab. 2), is not sufficient to conclude that the men behavior is affected by the ASR
e the women behavior is not.
completely agree! Indeed we are shocked we made this mistake! Nuestra culpa! Here we
asserting the null (i.e., that there is no effect). The statistical modeling does not allow us to
his. We will rephrase and say only what is appropriated (i.e., that we do not detect an effect)
161 changed from “there is no effect” to “we do not detect an effect”
addition, I regret that the authors focus on only four models:
Model 1: SOI ~ sex
Model 2: SOI ~ sex*ASR
Model 1+ : SOI ~ sex + relationship.status
Model 2+ : SOI ~ sex*ASR + relationship.status
owing Burnham and Anderson (2002) or Symonds and Moussalli (2011), I would have been
interested in interpreting the full set of biologically meaningful models (for example those
uding only additive terms,without interactions) and not only a small fraction of it. Several R
kages such as MuMin allow quick and efficient comparisons of competing models.
agree with the reviewer that multiple approaches may be appropriate given a particular data
and we appreciate that in some cases model comparison can be used to simply sort among
rger array of potentially important variables. Our approach here however is somewhat
rent, given the intensive theoretical debates within the sexual selection literature,
icularly with respect to parental investment and adult sex ratios (Kokko and Jennions 2008;
Namara, et al. 2000; Wade and Shuster 2002). Accordingly, in this context, we believe that
competing models should be drawn from theory. Furthermore we know of no theoretical
del (nor see any reference to such a model in the reviewer’s proposal) in which these terms
ld be additive. Finally, to be somewhat of a curmudgeon, we would like to point out that we
also strictly following the advice of Burnham and Anderson (2002):
cannot overstate the importance of the scientific issues, the careful formulation of multiple
king hypotheses, and the building of a small set of models to clearly and uniquely represent
se hypotheses.” p.47
ally, in our reading of Symonds and Mousali (Symonds and Moussalli 2011) we find that they
arguing that there are hazards associated with considering a lot of models, insofar as the
rpretation of <U+0394>i can become problematic because models strongly competing with the best
del (i.e. <U+0394>i<2) may differ very little structurally. As far as we understand it then, Symonds and
usali are arguing for relatively simple models: indeed they warn investigators to eschew
ations in which they are uncertain about whether variables are informative or not, offering
advice that every term in the candidate set included should be justified.
ordingly we retain our focus on keeping the model set small and based on theory. However,
do revise the text to acknowledge that other approaches could be appropriate given the
earcher’s interest:
ile in some cases it is appropriate to explore a large set of models, following the advice of
nham and Anderson (2002), we keep our model set small and based on theory.” Lines 333-
My second major comment is related to a possible confounding effect link to the age
cture. It is possible that the reported difference in mating behavior was not linked to the adult
-ratio (ASR) but to a difference in age structure between the communities. It is possible that
r individuals (with previous reproductive experience) have different SOI. I thus recommend
authors to either include in their analysis (see point 1, above) an effect of age or, at least, to
for differences in age structure between communities.
thank the reviewer for pointing out this reasonable confound. We have looked at age
cture between communities and find little effect of including this in the model. For the MS we
ude age as fixed effect in both models (model 1++, 2++) and include summaries in Table 3.
find that adding age has little effect on the goodness of fit for either model. Accordingly we
e revised the ms as follows:
counter the possibility that the ASR effect is confounded by relationship status or age, we
ed each (separately) as a main effect to both models (Model 1+ and Model 2+ include the
relationship status and Model 1++ and Model 2++ include age). As might be expected,
le individuals have higher sociosexuality scores than those that are partnered; nevertheless
association of sociosexuality with community ASR and sex remains, and the relative
ence for Model 2+ is much stronger than for Model 1+ (lowered by an AIC difference of 13;
le 3). Adding age to the models, however, has little effect on the goodness of fit for either
del (Table 3).” LINES 168-175
My last question concerns the stability across time of the ASR. I understand that men or
men temporarily leave their village to seek job opportunity outside their community. As the
R is the main hypothesis investigated to explain the mating behavior is this study, I would like
now how variable this ASR is across season. It is not sufficient to consider the ASR as an
riable parameter within a given community. As the survey was carried over a 16 month
od, one should easily find some data on the variation of ASR and report it in Tab. 1, at least.
believe the reviewer is concerned about inter and intra-annual variability in ASR. Regarding
rannual variation, while we have no decisive data on this (we only censused each
munity once), we feel quite confident in the assumption that ASR reflects subsistence and
ployment conditions that have remained quite stable over the last 20 years, insofar as these
structured by ecological and geographic factors (mountains, forests, proximity to towns, etc).
arding intra-annual variability, some employment opportunities are seasonal, but these are
e limited. So, yes there could be some fluctuations in ASR within and between years, but we
not have the longitudinal data to explore it – we chose instead to collect cross-sectional data
rder to increase our sample of communities. However, it is possible that the reviewer is
cerned about a time lag in our measure of ASR and our SOI survey. We made sure to avoid
h a problem. Across the 16 month field period, we first conducted a census of a village
ediately followed by administration of the questionnaire. In other words, we did not first
nd 8 months on census work then 8 months on interviews. This approach was taken to
ure that we had the most accurate and current sex ratio measure when asking individuals
ut sociosexuality. Accordingly we revise the text:
used ethnographic and demographic methods to conduct a full census of the first village in
er to determine the ASR (Table 1). We then administered the SOI to a randomly sampled
imum of 30 individuals (15 men and 15 women), aged between 18 and 45 years, from the
ge (see Table 1). This process was then continued across the subsequent 7 villages, for a
l of 8.” LINES 317-321
itionally we added the following text to address potential concerns about the inter and intra
ual variability in sex ratios:
test these models we capitalize on natural variation in ASR within a single ethnic group, the
ushi of Guyana living in the Rupununi Savannah (Fig. 1), where the relative numbers of
n and women in a village (Table 1) reflect subsistence and employment conditions that are
e stable over time.” LINES 107-110
or comments:
35: what does PI means?
an abbreviation for the term it directly follows - parental investment.
erence list formatting: there is too many capital letters in article titles.
have formatted the references as specified by the journal on their web page.
FX Dechaume-Moncharmont
lutionary ecology group
R CNRS 6282 Biogéosciences
versity of Burgundy
d Gabriel, 21000 Dijon, France
ail: fx.dechaume@u-bourgogne.fr
iewer: 2
s work joins a growing number of studies that investigate the influence of social environment
behaviour in humans and non-human animals. It reports that male reproductive strategies
related to adult sex ratios (ASRs). This is an important result suggesting that a somehow
rlooked aspect of sexual selection, ie ASR, does modulate sexual strategies.
work is carried out carefully, and the MS well written except in regards to the following
es.
erminology. SOI is not really a user-friendly acronym. I wonder whether labeling this variable
ply as "mating strategy" or something along this line would make the study more accessible
a wider audience.
are very sympathetic to this comment, knowing that much social science and psychology is
se with acronyms, impeding accessibility. SOI however is a very widely-used scale (a
gle scholar search returns just under 2,000 results) and we are rather nervous about
acing it with our own term which would probably be something like “reported tendencies
ards promiscuity” – which is clumsy. Such a term may be more accessible to a biologist, but
also perhaps a little disrespectful of our subjects. Promiscuity is frowned on among some
ial sets, whereas in other places or social circles there is no prejudice implied – accordingly
dangerous to use such volatile terms. To try to avoid inaccessibility, however, we use the
‘sociosexuality’ (which we now define early in the text; lines 121-122) in the place of most
ntions of SOI, and SOI primarily when talking about the scale/index itself. We take care
er to use the acronym in the Discussion, so as to increase accessibility for a reader jumping
he significance of our findings.
ilarly, "low" and "high" sex ratios are rarely used outside the primate and social science
ature, and I wonder whether it would make more sense adopting "male-biased" vs "female-
ed" usage - as done in pretty much all walks of evolutionary biology. Humans are afterall
one, somehow weird, species.
, we agree! We will throughout update low and high to male- and female-biased, for
mple line 91: “Polygyny is associated with low female-biased sex ratios”
ata collection and statistics. I found the method description and statistical justification not
helpful.
were somewhat confused by the reviewer’s observation that the” methods and statistical
ification were not very helpful”. Without specific points, we cannot see where/how to edit the
which currently covers, for the methods, the key point that the census was conducted prior
he SOI study, the sample sizes, the age range of subjects, the number of villages studied,
potential biases and our attempts to counters such biases; and for the statistical approach,
modeling assumption (Gaussian), our use of log transformed scores on both axes, our
archical modeling structure, and our use of AIC. Perhaps the problem lies in the fact that
e of this information is repeated, or in the case of this journal’s format, presaged in the
ults section. We strongly adhere to the philosophy that when Methods come at the end of a
er it is best to provide some methodological guidance in the results section, to help the
der who simply skims the results in evaluating a study. However, if our reviewer has more
cific concerns about why our section is not helpful, we are happy to work further on it.
en that SOI is the major response, it needs to be explained how it was collected and possibly
fied. What were the specific interview questions? how was the overall score calculated?
now include the SOI questionnaire as supplemental material, with a slightly expanded
mary of its strengths and weaknesses:
used the Sociosexual Orientation Inventory (SOI; see the electronic supplemental materials
additional information, the list of questions and score calculation).” LINES 307-308
a bit confused what was the unit of statistical analyses: individual males and females that
e interviewed? Or subset of villages somehow selected from the ones that were
rviewed?
unit of analysis is person nested in village. We amend the first sentence of the results
tion to make this clear:
r sample is composed of 300 individuals from 8 rural communities” LINE 133
esume, mating strategies might relate to the age of males and females, the size of their
sehold, and the number of their children. Were these potentially confounding effects
uded in the models?
eed there is a huge literature on how human mating strategies are affected, in women, for
mple, by menstrual cycle (Alvergne and Lummaa 2010) or education (Goodman, et al.
2), and in men, for example, by wealth (Borgerhoff Mulder 1990) or number of kin (Hewlett
8), and in both genders by age and parity (Winking, et al. 2007). In designing a study to test
influence of ASR we emphasize the merit in conducting an analysis WITHIN a single ethnic
up, and indeed within a geographical zone where there is relatively little socioeconomic
erogeneity, to try to rule out confounding economic and cultural factors (see lines 225-236 in
ent discussion). We appreciate age may have an effect, hence the control in models 2++.
e generally our response is as above; our study was designed to test models drawn from
competing theories rather than to identify the full set of variables affecting SOI in this
ulation.
at was the justification for using 4 models, and not, let say, 2 or 6?
ase see our response to reviewer 1 and the quote from Burnham and Anderson. We do not
approaches that look to more models as wrong, however here we focus on a small set of
oretically informed models because of the guiding theoretical question of our research.
2 is quite fuzzy in my version, and not clear how they were picked given that 4 statistical
dels were presented.
have provided a sharper version of fig 2, and we have clarified in the figure legend the
cise model used to generate the predicted points.
ally don't like trumpeting my own horn, although perhaps would be a good idea citing the
R review that recently came out in J Evol Biol, and an early exposure of the population-level
king for mating and parenting decisions (Székely et al. 2000. Mating patterns, sexual
ction and parental care: an integrative approach. IN Vertebrate mating systems, M.
llonio, M. Festa-Bianchet & D. Mainardi (eds), World Science Press, London pp 194-223).
were not aware of the recent J. Evol. Biol. paper, which is an absolutely terrific review and
ld have helped us enormously (it looks like it was published after we had submitted this
ugh). We have now cited this to make the following point:
urth, it is important to recognize that responses to the ASR may occur over evolutionary or
logical time scales (reviewed in Székely, et al. 2014).” Lines 243-244
are also thankful to be pointed to the argument made in Szekely et al 2000 regarding the
ortance of population-level factors affecting mating and parenting decisions, that we now
:
roductive strategies are clearly not an invariant, species-specific characteristic, but rather
ltative responses to individual- and population-level social and ecological circumstances
., Nettle 2009; Owens and Thompson 1994; Szekely, et al. 2000)… LINE 40-42
as Szekely
rgne, Alexandra, and Virpi Lummaa
2010 Does the contraceptive pill alter mate choice in humans? Trends in Ecology &amp;
Evolution 25(3):171-179.
gerhoff Mulder, M.
2009 Serial Monogamy as Polygyny or Polyandry? Marriage in the Tanzanian Pimbwe. Human
Nature 20(2):130-150.
gerhoff Mulder, Monique
1990 Kipsigis Women's Preferences for Wealthy Men: Evidence for Female Choice in
Mammals? Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 27(4):255-264.
wn, Gillian R., Kevin N. Laland, and Monique Borgerhoff Mulder
2009 Bateman's principles and human sex roles. Trends in Ecology & Evolution 24(6):297-304.
ton-Brock, Tim
2007 Sexual Selection in Males and Females. Science 318(5858):1882-1885.
sbury, Donald A.
2005 The Darwin-Bateman Paradigm in Historical Context. Integrative and Comparative
Biology 45(5):831-837.
dman, Anna, Ilona Koupil, and David W. Lawson
2012 Low fertility increases descendant socioeconomic position but reduces long-term fitness
in a modern post-industrial society. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences.
en, A.
1988 On the uses of data on lifetime reproductive success. In Reproductive Success. T.H.
Clutton-Brock, ed. Pp. 454-471: University of Chicago Press.
lett, B.
1988 Sexual selection and paternal investment among Aka pygmies. In Human Reproductive
Behavior: A Darwinian Perspective. L. Betzig, M. Borgerhoff Mulder, and P. Turke, eds. Pp. 263-
276. Cambridge, UK Cambridge University Press.
y, Sarah Blaffer
1986 Empathy, Polyandry, and the Myth of the Coy Female. In Feminist Approaches to
Science. R. Bleier, ed. Pp. 119–146. New York: Pergamon.
, H., et al.
2010 The mismeasurement of sexual selection. Journal of Evolutionary Biology 23(3):447-462.
ko, H., and M. D. Jennions
2008 Parental investment, sexual selection and sex ratios. Journal of Evolutionary Biology
21(4):919-948.
ko, H., M. D. Jennions, and R. Brooks
2006 Unifying and testing models of sexual selection. Annual Review of Ecology Evolution and
Systematics 37:43-66.
auer, A. H., et al.
2011 The opportunity for sexual selection: not mismeasured, just misunderstood. Journal of
Evolutionary Biology 24(9):2064-2071.
r, A., R. P. Freckleton, and T. Szekely
2013 The evolution of sex roles in birds is related to adult sex ratio. Nature Communications
4:1587.
r, András, Robert P Freckleton, and Tamás Székely
2014 Divorce and Infidelity Are Associated with Skewed Adult Sex Ratios in Birds. Current
Biology 24(8):880-884.
amara, John M., et al.
2000 A Dynamic Game-theoretic Model of Parental Care. Journal of Theoretical Biology
205(4):605-623.
tle, D.
2009 Ecological influences on human behavioural diversity: a review of recent findings.
Trends in Ecology & Evolution 24(11):618-624.
ns, Ian P. F., and Desmond B. A. Thompson
1994 Sex Differences, Sex Ratios and Sex Roles. Proceedings: Biological Sciences
258(1352):93-99.
za, B. A.
2011 Female choice and extra-pair paternity in a traditional human population. Biol Lett
7(6):889-91.
acht, Ryan, Kristin Liv Rauch, and Monique Borgerhoff Mulder
2014 Too many men: the violence problem? Trends in Ecology & Evolution 29(4):214-222.
mitt, D. P.
2005 Sociosexuality from Argentina to Zimbabwe: A 48-nation study of sex, culture, and
strategies of human mating. Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28(2):247-311.
onds, MatthewR E., and Adnan Moussalli
2011 A brief guide to model selection, multimodel inference and model averaging in
behavioural ecology using Akaike’s information criterion. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology
65(1):13-21.
ely, T., J. N. Webb, and I.C. Cuthill
2000 Mating patterns, sexual selection and parental care: an integrative approach. In
Vertebrate Mating Systems. M. Apollonio, M. Festa-Bianchet, and D. Mainardi, eds. Pp. 194-223.
London: World Science Press.
ely, T., F. J. Weissing, and J. Komdeur
2014 Adult sex ratio variation: implications for breeding system evolution. Journal of
Evolutionary Biology 27(8):1500-1512.
de, M. J., and S. M. Shuster
2002 The evolution of parental care in the context of sexual selection: A critical reassessment
of parental investment theory. American Naturalist 160(3):285-292.
king, Jeffrey, et al.
2007 Why do men marry and why do they stray? Proceedings of the Royal Society B:
Biological Sciences 274(1618):1643-1649.
Society Open
