Force per cross-sectional area from molecules to muscles:
a general property of biological motors
Jean-Pierre Rospars and Nicole Meyer-Vernet
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160313.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160313
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 7 May 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 16 June 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 17 June 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160009.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (James Marden)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Tables 2 & 3 appear to contain all of the data, with references. I think this easily meets the criteria
of adequate and clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I think this paper is nicely done and has a core strength of using some very simply presented
biophysics to explain the commonality of specific forces exerted by biological motors. The
authors also do a nice job of discussing structural features that contribute to variation. It will be a
valuable paper especially for students who have not experienced the long incremental slog of
science leading up to this 2016 perspective. It will serve in part as a review.
The topic is fairly well explored, but there are newer data contained here and a more
thorough compilation than has been accomplished previously. Hence, it will be an important
contribution.
I wrote a longer and more detailed review (including a list of specific comments) of an
earlier version of this manuscript for a different journal. The authors did a fine job of responding
to those comments and the only specific change I'd like to see in the present version is to fix the
vertical axis label in Fig 1, which in the version I'm seeing is pixelated and the "f" doesn't look like
an "f".
In summary, this is a fine paper with a lot of careful thinking and analyses. It deserves
to be published and will likely help stimulate more incorporation of formal biophysics analyses
into muscle physiology, single molecule biophysics, and studies of the scaling of biological force
production.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Natalie Holt)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Comments in file attached. See Appendix A.
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Andrew Spence)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes - the tables are excellent, both in content and explanation.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is a wonderful paper. It was a delight to read.
The authors have done an admirable job of rigorously showing how a few basic physical
principles and biological facts result in a pretty astonishing scaling law -- < 3 orders of magnitude
variation in muscle specific tension across ~18 orders of magnitude of size.
When something is proposed as the appropriate way in which to quantify something else, you
have to ask whether it has utility. The authors make a convincing case not only by identifying the
general scaling law above, but also by looking at secondary signals to the scaling law, and in
doing so uncovering and explaining several biological features (crushing claws, fundamentally
different physical chemistry of pili).
The paper is structured flawlessly, written clearly and without jargon, and the analyses are
appropriate.
The thoroughness of the paper, cogent explanations of the sources of variation that are found,
and the breadth of it's meta-analysis will likely lead to it being cited frequently.
It can be published as is. A couple of minor grammatical quibbles follow.
Page 2 L64: "of so different" so->such?
page 6 L 174: "contributes to movement of."
page 8 L 48: "but not for Swim nor" (the authors use neither-this may be correct)
great biophysics... L285
p12 L388 "so different" -> "such different"
Andrew Spence
Bioengineering
Temple University, Philly, USA
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160009)
18-Mar-2016
Dear Dr Rospars:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160009 entitled "FORCE PER CROSS-SECTIONAL AREA FROM
MOLECULES TO MUSCLES:
A GENERAL PROPERTY OF BIOLOGICAL MOTORS" which you submitted to Royal Society
Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of
this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 15-Sep-2016. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Kevin Padian, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Monica Daley):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Your manuscript has been evaluated by two expert reviewers, one of whom states that they have
previously reviewed a version of this manuscript elsewhere. While this reviewer is happy with
the current version of the manuscript, Reviewer 2 raises some reasonable concerns about
variation in nature of the measures used for cross-sectional area and masses across scales. This
reviewer points out that variation in the measures used could potentially obscure real scaling
effects, and therefore asks for further clarification and justification for the methods. Some
5
evaluation of the sensitivity of the results to alternative methods would be useful. Could
alternative approaches reveal scaling trends that are not apparent here? Do the results change
substantially if the scaling regressions are restricted to subsets of data made using more
comparable measures of mass and cross-section? Please fully address this point within the
manuscript text of any revised version, along with a point-by-point response to Reviewer 2.
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I think this paper is nicely done and has a core strength of using some very simply presented
biophysics to explain the commonality of specific forces exerted by biological motors. The
authors also do a nice job of discussing structural features that contribute to variation. It will be a
valuable paper especially for students who have not experienced the long incremental slog of
science leading up to this 2016 perspective. It will serve in part as a review.
The topic is fairly well explored, but there are newer data contained here and a more
thorough compilation than has been accomplished previously. Hence, it will be an important
contribution.
I wrote a longer and more detailed review (including a list of specific comments) of an
earlier version of this manuscript for a different journal. The authors did a fine job of responding
to those comments and the only specific change I'd like to see in the present version is to fix the
vertical axis label in Fig 1, which in the version I'm seeing is pixelated and the "f" doesn't look like
an "f".
In summary, this is a fine paper with a lot of careful thinking and analyses. It deserves
to be published and will likely help stimulate more incorporation of formal biophysics analyses
into muscle physiology, single molecule biophysics, and studies of the scaling of biological force
production.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Comments in file attached
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160009)
See Appendix B.
6
label_version_2
RSOS-160313.R0 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Natalie Holt)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The supplementary material provides adequate supporting data
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
See attached file. See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160313)
03-Jun-2016
Dear Dr Rospars
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160313 entitled
"FORCE PER CROSS-SECTIONAL AREA FROM MOLECULES TO MUSCLES:
A GENERAL PROPERTY OF BIOLOGICAL MOTORS" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
7
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160313
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 12-Jun-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
8
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Monica Daley):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Overall, this work has been praised by the reviewers for the elegant use of biophysics principles
and a thorough analysis of available evidence to show that molecular and macroscopic biological
motors produce similar specific tension over a vast range in size.
Your revised manuscript has now be re-evaluated by the more critical of the previous reviewers.
This reviewer is now satisfied that the main concerns have been well-addressed by the authors'
revisions to the paper. The reviewer provides a few additional thoughtful comments for
suggested minor revisions in an attached file. These comments do not impact the scientific
soundness of the work or the interpretation of the main findings, so I will leave it to the authors'
9
judgement whether or not to make further revisions to the manuscript in response to these
suggestions.
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160313)
See Appendix D.
ppendix A
paper compares specific tensions across a range of biological motors, from single molecules to
re organs.
paper uses a meta-analysis of published forces and specific tensions to answer questions about the
cific tension produced by these motors at a range of scales.
authors find that the mean and variance of the specific tension produced by biological motors are
ependent of the cell or body mass from which they came, but find some evidence of variation
ending on the type of motor, the taxonomic and functional group. They attempt to relate the
sistency of specific tension to the energy of ATP hydrolysis and the amount of movement induced by
formational changes in the protein.
e this idea of comparing specific tension across levels. It has the potential to inform us about the
ent to which molecular level motors determine organismal level performance, the extent to which
formance can be varied by varying motor type, and the effect of higher levels of organization.
wever, I have some concerns about that way in which specific tension is calculated and the
ermination of mass that may make it impossible to interpret the findings of this study.
d some trouble following the rationales for the use of areas and masses. However, it seems like in
ecular motors specific force was calculated from force normalized to cross sectional area of the
tein estimated from its volume. For non-molecular motors, specific tension was taken from the
ature, and should therefore have been calculated as force divided by fiber or cross-sectional area.
is problematic as measurements of specific tension are very sensitive to area and the cross sectional
a of different things is being calculated. I cannot think of a fundamental reason why the force
duced by a molecular motor should be related to its cross-sectional area. For a whole muscle, it is
re obvious as cross sectional area related to the number of actin myosin interactions occurring. This
ms to make these measures of area hard to compare.
re problematically is determination of mass. Mass seems either to be taken as the mass of the cell or
mass of the animal. This seems like a very confusing metric, unrelated to the mechanical
formance of the motor. It seems like the force produced by a myofilament from an elephant would
ompared to the mass of the cell, whilst the force produced by an elephant muscle would be
pared to the mass of the elephant. If this is correct, then it makes the relationship to mass (upon
ch the findings of the study are heavily based) seem somewhat meaningless.
ater clarification and justification of how specific tensions are calculated and the rationale for using
se methods are required. If my assessment is correct, a new way of assessing area and mass needs to
determined in order to make the results meaningful, even if this means assessing specific force
oss a smaller range of scales. My current feeling is that the systematic variation in things that are
ng calculated as area and mass could potentially obscure any effects – this might be evidence the in
cific force body mass relationship in flight muscles. This relationship is seen in a group which spans a
tively small region of the mass axis, therefore is likely to all be similar types of data.
area needs to be addressed before publication can be considered.
er points to consider:
only statistical analysis described is an ANOVA. However, the basis of the results is a regression of
cific force and body mass. As a meta-analysis depends so heavily on correct analysis of large amounts
ata, more detail should be given on calculation of parameters and statistical analysis.
a above 350kPa are excluded in some cases, but there does not appear to be any rationale for this.
a should not be removed without a good a priori reason. This should be clarified in the text.
methods used to arrive at figure 2 and the differences between C and E, and D and F should be
ified.
rationale for why specific tension might be constant seems to be based on the energy of ATP
rolysis and the length change induced by conformational changes in proteins. However, this appears
e based on a perfect transduction of chemical into mechanical energy (i.e. 100% efficiency). Is this
umption inherent in this assessment? If so, this should be discussed as it is not necessarily a well-
ported assumption.
ch is made of the similarity in the variation, attributed to experimental and biological factors, across
ecular and non-molecular level motors. However, my feeling is that there is just a huge amount of
ation in all cases, potentially as a consequence of how the data are calculated.
pendix B
RESPONSE TO REVIEWS
AND DETAILED CHANGES TO THE MANUSCRIPT
OCIATE EDITOR COMMENTS TO AUTHOR (Dr Monica Daley):
ociate Editor: 1
mments to the Author:
our manuscript has been evaluated by two expert reviewers, one of whom states that they
e previously reviewed a version of this manuscript elsewhere. While this reviewer is happy
h the current version of the manuscript, Reviewer 2 raises some reasonable concerns about
iation in nature of the measures used for cross-sectional area and masses across scales. This
ewer points out that variation in the measures used could potentially obscure real scaling
cts, and therefore asks for further clarification and justification for the methods. Some
luation of the sensitivity of the results to alternative methods would be useful. Could
rnative approaches reveal scaling trends that are not apparent here? Do the results change
stantially if the scaling regressions are restricted to subsets of data made using more
parable measures of mass and cross-section? Please fully address this point within the
uscript text of any revised version, along with a point-by-point response to Reviewer 2.
ponse:
Thank you for having given us the possibility to respond to these objections and to submit a
sed manuscript. We have improved it with respect to the criticisms and we provide below a
nt-to-point response to reviewer 2.
irst of all, we wish to clarify two important points appearing in the criticisms:
) Do the methods, in particular the definition of areas A, to define the tension f = F/A, and
ses M, obscure real scaling trends?
) Would scaling regressions change if restricted to subsets of data?
Concerning point (1), we have added detailed justifications for our definitions of A and M. For
our approach is the most basic alternative and it enables us to confirm and improve results
lished by previous authors. For M, its definition does not affect most of our statistical
lyses and, in particular, our main result that molecular and macroscopic motors have similar
istical distributions of f (Fig. 1 C and D of the revised manuscript), with identical medians and
ns despite their huge difference in scale. To clarify this point, we have modified the paper
reorganized it to present the main statistical analyses (independent on the choice of M) first
s. 1, 2, 3), and the previous Fig. 1 (f versus M, now Fig.4) at the end.
Concerning point (2), two kinds of scaling trends in f vs. M can be considered: local scaling
cts based on subsets of data and a global scaling effect based on the whole set of data. Our
er is concerned primarily with the global trend. The two scales (local and global) are partially
ependent; even if clear local trends were found, they would not weaken the absence of global
d. To answer the objections of reviewer 2, we have nevertheless calculated regressions with
eral restricted sets of data, and present the results in new paragraphs of the Results and
cussion based on the supplementary Tables S8 to S12.
The revised text with highlighted changes is given at the end of the present file.
ponse to reviewers Page 1
VIEWERS' COMMENTS TO AUTHOR:
VIEWER: 1
mments to the Author(s)
…] the only specific change I'd like to see in the present version is to fix the vertical axis
el in Fig 1, which in the version I'm seeing is pixelated and the "f" doesn't look like an "f".
n summary, this is a fine paper with a lot of careful thinking and analyses. It deserves to be
lished and will likely help stimulate more incorporation of formal biophysics analyses into
cle physiology, single molecule biophysics, and studies of the scaling of biological force
duction.
We thank the reviewer for the very positive comments on our work. Concerning the vertical
label in the previous Fig. 1 (now Fig. 4), the original figure in Postscript format (EPS) we are
providing should not have the pixelated appearance of the PNG format in the original Word
we used for submission.
VIEWER: 2
mments to the Author(s)
1] I like this idea of comparing specific tension across levels. It has the potential to inform us
ut the extent to which molecular level motors determine organismal level performance, the
nt to which performance can be varied by varying motor type, and the effect of higher levels
rganization.
We do appreciate the reviewer’s support on this point.
2] However, I have some concerns about that way in which specific tension is calculated and
determination of mass that may make it impossible to interpret the findings of this study.
had some trouble following the rationales for the use of areas and masses. However, it seems
in molecular motors specific force was calculated from force normalized to cross sectional
a of the protein estimated from its volume. For non-molecular motors, specific tension was
n from the literature, and should therefore have been calculated as force divided by fiber or
ss-sectional area.
We confirm that specific tensions were defined and calculated in this way, and try to present
e important aspects more clearly in the revised version. We have taken into account these
cerns and provide further explanations below.
3] This is problematic as measurements of specific tension are very sensitive to area and the
ss sectional area of different things is being calculated. I cannot think of a fundamental
son why the force produced by a molecular motor should be related to its cross-sectional
a. For a whole muscle, it is more obvious as cross sectional area related to the number of
n myosin interactions occurring. This seems to make these measures of area hard to compare.
ponse to reviewers Page 2
pecific tensions are indeed very sensitive to areas. We have normalized all the forces F to
s-sections A for the following reasons:
or macroscopic motors (fibres, muscles…) f = F/A is available in the literature and known to
e roughly constant.
n order to compare with molecular motors (of much smaller scale), a normalization is needed;
he cross-section is the most natural choice since the forces ultimately stem from chemical
ounds (hydrogen bounds…), whose number acting in parallel is roughly proportional to
ross-section; a quantitative theoretical argument is given in the paper.
We fully agree with the referee on the difficulty of estimating cross-sections; this difficulty
lso holds for macroscopic muscles and contributes to the uncertainty on the values of f
vailable in the literature; for molecular motors, we defined A in the most basic way from the
motor’s mass.
Our method enables us to confirm and complete results found by previous authors.
We have added clarifications on all these points in the paper.
4] More problematically is determination of mass. Mass seems either to be taken as the mass
he cell or the mass of the animal. This seems like a very confusing metric, unrelated to the
hanical performance of the motor.
Before defining M as we did, we considered 3 other possible choices for M:
(1) The mass of the organism (organisms are free cells or multicellular). With this choice, the
same subcellular motor would be linked to extremely different masses depending on
whether it is extracted from a free cell or a metazoan. This choice would dissociate
arbitrarily analogous molecules expressed in a bacterium or a large vertebrate.
(2) The mass of the motor. Unfortunately the mass of muscles is rarely given in the references
we cite.
(3) The mass that the motor moves. This mass depends on the nature (M1, M2, etc.) of the
motor, so that this definition is still more difficult to implement than (2) because the mass
moved is either ill-defined (e.g. for muscles) or unknown.
o, a proxy of (3) has been chosen – the mass of the next higher hierarchical level, i.e. the
s of the cell for subcellular motors (M1, M2, MF) and the mass of the animal for cellular and
racellular motors (FI, MU, MS). This definition is unambiguous, and the corresponding mass
erally known.
Anyway, the choice of M would not affect most of our statistical analyses (Figs 1, 2, 3). It
uld only affect the horizontal axis of Fig. 4, and another choice would modify only slightly the
rall range of masses. Indeed, with definition (2) this range would be still wider since the
imum mass would be 10-22 kg (kinesin mass) and the maximum mass >1 kg (muscle mass),
more than 22 orders of magnitude. With (1) the range would remain the same because the
llest mass would still be 10-15 kg (Escherichia coli).
We have added explanations for this choice of M and its consequences in the manuscript.
5] It seems like the force produced by a myofilament from an elephant would be compared to
mass of the cell, whilst the force produced by an elephant muscle would be compared to the
s of the elephant. If this is correct, then it makes the relationship to mass (upon which the
ings of the study are heavily based) seem somewhat meaningless.
ponse to reviewers Page 3
t is true that the specific tension of MF is compared to the mass of the cell (FI) whereas the
cific tension of FI is compared to the mass of the body. However, the findings of our study are
heavily based on the (lack of) relationship of specific tension to mass M. The choice of M
y affects the statistical analyses shown in Fig. 4 (Fig. 1 of the submitted manuscript). Since 1)
e analyses concern global trends (on the whole mass range) which are the main goal of our
er, and 2) the statistical distributions of f of molecular and non-molecular motors
ependent of the choice of the variable M) are similar, with in particular the same medians and
ns despite the different scales, the absence of large scale trend shown in Fig. 4 is not
rising.
6] Greater clarification and justification of how specific tensions are calculated and the
onale for using these methods are required. If my assessment is correct, a new way of
essing area and mass needs to be determined in order to make the results meaningful, even if
means assessing specific force across a smaller range of scales. My current feeling is that the
ematic variation in things that are being calculated as area and mass could potentially
cure any effects – this might be evidence the in specific force body mass relationship in flight
cles. This relationship is seen in a group which spans a relatively small region of the mass
, therefore is likely to all be similar types of data.
his area needs to be addressed before publication can be considered.
We hope the explanations above, especially in item [5], clarify our approach and answer the
part of this criticism. We have added in the paper a discussion of this point and in particular
ll subsection in the Discussion. Concerning local trends involving smaller mass regions of the
xis of Fig. 4, we have carefully considered this objection, and added a number of analyses
bles S8 to S12) and two paragraphs (in the Results and Discussion sections).
Other points to consider:
7] The only statistical analysis described is an ANOVA. However, the basis of the results is a
ression of specific force and body mass. As a meta-analysis depends so heavily on correct
lysis of large amounts of data, more detail should be given on calculation of parameters and
istical analysis.
As discussed in [5] the basis of the results is not the regression of Fig. 4 but the statistical
ributions of Fig. 1.
We have followed your suggestion to give more details on the calculation of parameters and
istical tests. They are given in tables included in the supplementary material file. For each of
6 comparisons shown in Figs. 2 and 3 we now provide (a) the ANOVA table of f per group,
the means and SEM of f per group, and (c) the multiple comparison of means for all pairs of
ups with P values (Tables S1 to S6). For the 8 regressions shown in the Fig. 4 and others not
wn, we now provide detailed tables (Tables S7 to S12).
8] Data above 350kPa are excluded in some cases, but there does not appear to be any
onale for this. Data should not be removed without a good a priori reason. This should be
ified in the text.
We have not excluded data above 350 kPa a priori but only in order to give a more precise
istical description of the restricted distribution of specific tensions. Note that 350 kPa is not
ponse to reviewers Page 4
trary but the value at which the CDF (Fig. 1A) presents a distinct change of slope (we have
ed this remark in the text). We show that the distribution of all f can sometimes be described
a lognormal law (in revised Fig. 1, left column) but that a normal distribution is always more
ropriate (and precise) for f < 350 kPa (in revised Fig. 1, right column).
9] The methods used to arrive at figure 2 and the differences between C and E, and D and F
uld be clarified.
Previous Fig. 2 is now Fig. 1). Following your suggestion, we have added in the legend of
1 an explanation of the empirical cumulated distribution function (CDF). The empirical CDF
vides a complete and undistorted view of the original data (all values are shown on the graph
ng the x-axis at each increment of the staircase). This is the reason why it is now
mmended in replacement of histograms whose appearance can be strongly dependent on bin
(especially with small samples).
As for the difference between C and E, it rests on definitions for “molecular” and “locomotor”
en in the Methods section. Distributions C and E (and D and F) have not been compared by
Kolmogorov-Smirnov test because being of different nature no biological conclusion could be
wn from their similarity or difference. In order to focus on the essential results we have now
oved panels E and F from Fig. 1.
10] The rationale for why specific tension might be constant seems to be based on the energy
ATP hydrolysis and the length change induced by conformational changes in proteins.
wever, this appears to be based on a perfect transduction of chemical into mechanical energy
100% efficiency). Is this assumption inherent in this assessment? If so, this should be
ussed as it is not necessarily a well-supported assumption.
ndeed, our estimate of the specific tension is based on the energy of ATP hydrolysis and the
damental motor length scale, assuming 100 % efficiency. Taking into account the actual
ciency would not change this order of magnitude since molecular motors are known to have a
h efficiency. We have added explanations and references in the text on this.
11] Much is made of the similarity in the variation, attributed to experimental and biological
ors, across molecular and non-molecular level motors. However, my feeling is that there is
a huge amount of variation in all cases, potentially as a consequence of how the data are
ulated.
We agree that a methodological component (“how the data are calculated”) may be
sidered, besides the experimental and biological components, to analyze the observed
ation (assuming at this point that the notion of specific tension is appropriate for both non-
ecular and molecular motors as shown in item [3]). This component concerns mostly the
surement of area A in both molecules (because of the V2/3approximation) and muscles (the
s-sectional area A was not always measured in the same way by different authors). We have
dified the text accordingly. However, given the magnitude of the observed variability (~200-
%, see Q10, Q90 and median in Table 4) for both molecular motors (2nd line) and non-
ecular motors (3rd line), it remains likely that a large part of the overall variability is from
ogical origin.
ponse to reviewers Page 5
FORCE PER CROSS-SECTIONAL AREA FROM MOLECULES TO MUSCLES:
A GENERAL PROPERTY OF BIOLOGICAL MOTORS
Jean-Pierre Rospars a and Nicole Meyer-Vernet b
a
Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique (INRA), Unité Mixte de Recherche 1392
Institut d'Ecologie et des Sciences de l’Environnement de Paris, 78000 Versailles, France
jean-pierre.rospars@versailles.inra.fr
b
LESIA, Observatoire de Paris, CNRS, PSL Research University, UPMC, Sorbonne Univ.,
Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 92195 Cedex Meudon, France
nicole.meyer@obspm.fr
NNING TITLE: Specific tension in biological motors
STRACT
n this paper We propose to formally extend the notion of specific tension, i.e. force per cross-
ional area -– classically used for muscles, to quantify forces in molecular motors exerting
ous biological functions. For doing so, we review and compare the maximum tensions
rted by ~265 biological motors operated by ~150 species of different taxonomic groups. The
ors considered range from single molecules and motile appendages of micro-organisms to
le muscles of large animals. We show that specific tensions exerted by molecular and non-
ecular motors follow a similar distributionstatistical distributions, with in particular similar
dians and are independent of(logarithmic) means. Over the 1019 mass (M) range of the cell or
y from which theythe motors are extracted. The same properties hold for motors that move
organism, their specific tensions vary as compared to motors with other functionsMa with a
significantly different from zero. The typical specific tension found in most motors is ~200
, which generalizes to individual molecular motors and micro-organisms a classical property
acroscopic muscles. We propose a basic order-of-magnitude interpretation of this result.
Y WORDS: biological motors, specific tension, molecular motors, myofibrils, muscles
ponse to reviewers Page 1
CKGROUND
Living organisms use biological motors for achieving various functions, which range from
rnal transport of ions and molecules withinin cells to motion of micro-organisms and animals,
latter being driven by muscles. The forces developed by muscles are generally expressed in
s ofas force per cross-sectional area, called specific tension or stress. It has been known for a
g time that the vertebrate striated muscles can exert maximum tensions at constant length
metric tension) of about 200-300 kPa which are on first approximation independent of the
scle and the body mass (Close, 1972). This rule was extended to arthropod muscles with
ues in the range 300-700 kPa (Alexander, 1985), although in some mollusc muscles stresses
o 1400 kPa were reported (Ruegg, 1968). Later, a review of the literature based on muscles of
species of different taxonomic groups, including mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians,
luscs, insects, and crustaceans (Medler, 2002) concluded that there was no significant
tionship between body mass and isometric tension, although isometric tension was found to
ignificantly higher in molluscs, crustaceans and amphibians than in other groups.
n the last twenty years investigations were extended at the subcellular and molecular levels to
estigate myofibrils (e.g. Tesi et al., 2000), and non-muscular motors (e.g. Mehta et al. 1999).
latter included measurement of forces developed by rotary or linear motors operating the
1-ATPase ion pump (e.g. Sambongi et al., 1999, Yasuda et al., 1998), bacterial flagella (e.g.
g, 2003), bacterial pili (e.g. Miller et al., 2006, Biais et al., 2008), and the helical spasmoneme
ng of the protozoan Vorticella (e.g. Upadhyaya et al., 2008). Investigations also included
es generated by single molecules producing tension used for locomotion or for other
ctions. The former include myosin II – a major component of myofibrils driving skeletal
scles (e.g. Craig and Woodhead, 2006), and axonemal dynein – bending flagella of eukaryotic
s (e.g. Schmitz et al., 2000). The latter include conventional kinesin (e.g. Schnitzer et al.,
0), cytoplasmic dynein – transporting various cargos in cells (e.g. Gennerich et al., 2007), and
A polymerase – moving along DNA while carrying transcription (Wang et al., 1998).
Despite their diversity, all these motors are based on protein machines generating forces.
croscopic muscles are based on the myosin motor, whereas micro-organisms and cells use
er types of molecular motors. For comparing motors of so different sizes, the convenient
ameter is not the force F, which varies from several 10-12 N for the myosin globular motor of
ponse to reviewers Page 2
s-sectional area A ~ 40 nm2, to about 500 N for a large muscle of cross-section ~20 cm2, but,
we intend to show, the specific tension F/A. In muscles, the approximate conservation of F/A
ween animals is an extension of a rule dating back to Galileo that the strength of a structure is
portional to its cross-section. Now, it turns out from the above valuesnumbers that the tension
he myosin molecular motor is of the same order of magnitude as the tension of macroscopic
scles (all references to tension here and elsewhere refer to specific tension unless otherwise
ed). We will show that this property is not a coincidence but stems from the basic arrangement
ross-bridges in striated muscles. Furthermore, because biological molecular motors are based
protein machines that convert chemical energy into mechanical energy in similar ways (with
possible exception of pili and jump muscles), their tensions are expected to be of the same
er of magnitude as that of myosin. Therefore, we propose to extend to molecular motors the
cept of tension of macroscopic muscles and to compare their applied forces per unit cross-
ional area. Moreover, That the forces per unit cross-sectional area may be similar for
ecular motors and muscles is also suggestedagrees with results by Marden and Allen (2002)
Marden (2005), who show in a class of motors that maximum force output scales as the two-
ds power of motor’s mass, i.e. withclose to the motor’s cross-sectional area.
n order to make a meaningful comparison, we need to consider a representative set of muscle
ions, as well as the tension of the myosin motor and those of various other molecular motors.
we analysed 329 published values of maximum forces or tension for ~265 diverse biological
ors. These motors include single molecules, molecular assemblies, muscle cells and whole
scles with various functional demands. They come from free-living cells and multicellular
anisms of diverse phyla spanning more than 18 orders of magnitude in mass from 10-16 to 103
Our primary interest was for motors involved in whole body motion whereas the other motors
e kept for comparison.
The three main questions we addressed on this basis are: Can the notion of specific tension of
scles (force per cross-sectional area) be formally extended to propulsion of organelles and to
vidual molecular motors? How does this tension compare with that in muscles, and can the
lts be understood in terms of the basic structures of both molecular motors and muscle
es? How does tension in motors devoted to cell or body motion compare with tension in other
ors?
ponse to reviewers Page 3
TERIAL AND METHODS
Motor forces
The main variable of interest in the present paper is the force generated by molecules,
ecular assemblies, muscle fibres and muscles. Our data set includes five motor types
ending on the nature of the generated force:
. Forces generated by single molecules (denoted M1): myosin II, kinesin I, axonemal and
plasmic dynein, and RNA polymerase. (Other myosins (other classes of myosin and
esinskinesin were not considered because of insufficient data).
. Forces produced by large molecular assemblies (denoted M2): F0F1-ATPase, bacterial
ella, pili, spasmonemes and myofibrils. These motors can be also classified as non-
omotory (ATPase) and locomotory (the others) or as rotary (ATPase, bacterial flagella) and
ar (the others).
. Forces produced by single muscle fibres (i. e. muscle cells) or bundles of a few muscle
es (both denoted FI), frequently demembranated (skinned), while maximally stimulated and
mped at constant length (isometric contraction), with electrical or chemical stimulations.
. Maximum force produced by dissected large bundles of fibres or isolated whole muscles
ulated isometrically with electrical stimulation of the nerve or the muscle (denoted MU).
. Forces measured in behaving animals engaged in a wide range of activities including
ning, jumping, swimming and biting (denoted MV).
ingle molecules (M1) and molecular assemblies (M2) are collectively called here “molecular
ors”. The other motors, muscle fibres (FI) and whole muscles (MU and MV) are called “non-
ecular motors”.
dentification of study reports
Values of forces generated by molecular and non-molecular motors were taken from 173
cles published in peer-reviewed journals for a wide variety of cells and animals. We sought a
ple that is representative of the widest range of sizes and design varieties for as many species
ossible (~150 species were found) representing several different taxonomic groups, including
teria, protozoa, algae, fungi, echinoderms, insects, crustaceans, molluscs, fish, amphibian,
iles, birds and mammals.
ponse to reviewers Page 4
or molecular motors, we searched for articles providing the main variables of interest (either
e for linear motors or torque and lever arm for rotary motors) for the 10 types listed above.
er types were not considered. For example, of the 14 classes of kinesin, only the most studied
esin I was included and in the myosin superfamily which consists of at least 18 classes of
or proteins involved in a large variety of physiological processes, only class II myosin
nventional”) responsible for muscle contraction was included; the other classes involved in
gocytosis, cell motility and vesicle transport were excluded. For each type, potentially
vant papers were searched using the Google Scholar database using as keywords the motor
e plus “force”, “torque” or “pN”.
or non-molecular motors we proceeded in two steps. First, relevant papers were identified
m previous review papers (Close, 1972; Alexander, 1985; Marden and Allen, 2002; Medler,
2); all their cited references were included, except thosethe rare cases for which the full text
not available or the paper could not be feasibly translated into English. Second, other
entially relevant papers were searched without restriction on language or date in the Google
olar database using keywords (“specific tension”, “muscle stress”, “fibre”, “fiber”, “N/m2”,
m-2”, “N/cm2”, “N cm-2”, “N mm-2”, “pascal”, “kPa”, “physiological cross sectional area”,
SA”, “CSA”, etc.). Bibliographic searches were discontinued in April 2015.
The papers in this preliminary list were screened based on their title and abstract to exclude
se unrelated to biological motors, then collected. The useful information was extracted from
h of them (see below) with independent checks by the two authors for most of them. Papers
hout original measurements were excluded. Data published more than once by the same
hor(s) or reproduced by other authors were identified and only the paper with the original
surement was kept in the reference list. Measurements not fulfilling our criteria (stall force of
le molecular motor, maximum isometric tension of non-molecular motors) were not
sidered. No relevant papers were excluded.
Motor tensions
or all motors, the measured forces F were normalized per cross-sectional area A (tension
F/A expressed in N/m2 or more convenientlyequivalently kPa).
or molecular motors the tensions were calculated from the published values (measured force
for rotary motors, torque and lever arm, see Tables 1 and 2) with the area A calculated from
ponse to reviewers Page 5
volume V of the motor (with the order-of-magnitude approximation A = V2/3, see Table 1) or),
ept for a few elongated shapes (pilus and spasmoneme) for which we estimated A from the
meter of the molecular assembly (pilus and spasmoneme)..
or non-molecular motors the tensions (f = F/A) were always given in the articles cited.
All tensions were expressed in kPa. In papers giving several values or minimum and
ximum, their mean was calculated. Values from different papers were never pooled. In Tables
molecular motors) and 3 (non-molecular motors) tensions given by different authors in
erent conditions for the same motor are listed separately (329 values). If the same motor of
same species, studied by different authors or the same authors in different conditions, are
nted only once, the number of different motors is ~265 (the uncertainty arises from a few
surements in Table 3 which were made on a mixture of distinct fibres or several muscles
ether).
Body mass
he tensions were analysed with respect to the mass M of the “body” that the motor contributes
move. For molecular motors this is the mass of the cell from which the motor was extracted.
en not reported, cell masses were estimated from other sources or calculated from the cell
. In non-molecular motors, tensions were analysed with respect to the mass M of the
esponding animal. When not reported, body masses were also estimated from other sources.
organisms considered range in mass from the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa (7 x 10-16
to the muscular fibre (5 x 10-8 kg) for the cells, and from the mite Archegozetes longisetosus
-7 kg) to the elephant (2500 kg) for the multicellular organisms.
or both f and M, means of a series of equivalent measurements by the same author(s) were
erred when available. When only minimum and maximum values were given, we took their
n.
Other motor classifications
The data were also analysed with respect to the structure of motors, their function and the
onomic position of the organisms.
or comparing structures, the original 12 types, from molecules to muscles, were aggregated
classes (M1, M2, FI, MU, MV) or 2 classes (molecular M1 + M2 and non-molecular) as
ponse to reviewers Page 6
ned above. In some figures and Table 4, MF, for which the cross-section was indicated in the
cles cited, were shown separately from the other M2 motors.
The functional groups were defined by the contribution of the motor to the overall movement
heir parent organism, the 4 basic categories being swimming (Swim), flying (Fly), moving
h respect to a solid surface (terrestrial Terr), and no direct contribution to locomotion (Non-
. Examples of Non-loc motors are RNA polymerase, cytoplasmic dynein, kinesin, F0/F1
Pase and various muscular motors (heart, diaphragm, wing closer, gill pump, claw closer,
nx, eye).
or taxonomic comparisons, groups having less than 5 f values (protozoa, algae, fungi,
inoderms, arachnids) were excluded.
Body mass
inally, the tensions were analysed with respect to the mass M of the “body” that the motor
tributes to move. For molecular motors this is the mass of the cell from which the motor was
acted. When not reported, cell masses were estimated from other sources or calculated from
cell size. In non-molecular motors, tensions were analysed with respect to the mass M of the
esponding animal. When not reported, body masses were also estimated from other sources.
organisms considered range in mass from the bacterium Escherichia coli (1.3 x 10-15 kg) to
muscular fibre (5 x 10-8 kg) for the cells, and from the mite Archegozetes longisetosus (10-7
to the elephant (2500 kg) for the multicellular organisms.
or both f and M, means of a series of equivalent measurements by the same author(s) were
erred when available. When only minimum and maximum values were given, we took their
n.
tatistics
tatistical distributions were compared with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (Siegel, 1956).
ltiple distributions were compared with the one-way analysis of variance (Anova) and
esponding multiple comparison of means using Tukey-Kramer adjustment. All Slopes of
t-square regressions of log10(f) vs. log10(M) were compared to 0 using the F test. Details of
istical analyses are given as Supplementary Tables S1 to S6 for Anova and multiple
ponse to reviewers Page 7
parison of means and S7 to S12 for regressions. All tests were performed at level 5% with
Matlab Statistical Toolbox (The Mathworks, Natick, USA).
SULTS
The data have been analysed in terms of the maximum force per cross-sectional area f. We
sider separately motors made of single molecules (denoted M1) and molecular assemblies
, MF) that we collectively call “molecular motors”, whereas the other motors, muscle fibres
and whole muscles (MU for dissected muscles or MV for behaving animals) are called “non-
ecular motors”. We have also analysed the data in terms of the mass M of the “body” that the
or contributes to move and the contribution ofto whether the motor contributes to the overall
vement of the parent organism.
The characteristic sizes of molecular motors are given in Table 1. All data (species, taxonomic
up, motor type, motor function, motor description, cell or body mass M, comment on M,
cific tension f, temperature, reference) are gathered in Table 2 for molecular motors and
le 3 for non-molecular motors. In Table 2, f was calculated from the measured force or torque
en in the references cited and the cross-sectional area and lever arm given in Table 1. The
istics on f are summarized in Table 4.
pecific tensions are independent of cell or body massesof molecular and non-molecular
ors follow similar statistical distributions
Log-log plots of the 329 pairs of (M, f) values are shown in Fig. 1. Overall, values of cell and
y mass M range from 2 x 10-16 kg (bacterium) to 2500 kg (elephant) whereas values of
cific tension f range from 3.6 to 1944 kPa. Hence, whereas M varies by more than 19 orders of
nitude, f only varies by a factor of 500.
Overall, tension appears to be independent of the cell mass or body mass. The slopes of the
ession lines f vs. M are not significantly different from zero, neither for all f values (P = 0.90,
1A), nor for molecular motors (M1, M2 and MF, P = 0.17, Fig. 1B on the left) and non-
ecular motors (FI, MU, MV, P = 0.47, Fig. 1B on the right).
ponse to reviewers Page 8
or easier reading, polygons enclosing all points of the same category are shown: types of
ors (Fig. 1B) and taxonomic groups (Fig. 1C). Except for the flight motors, the range of
ation of M does not depend on the categories (Non-loc, Swim, Terr) (Fig. 1D). The slopes of
regression lines are significantly different from zero for Non-loc, Fly and Terr but neither for
m nor for all locomotory motors together (P = 0.24, not shown); they are all smaller than 0.02
bsolute value, except for flying (0.1).
pecific tensions of molecular and non-molecular motors follow the same distributions
Overall, The distribution of all f values is close to a lognormal, with log10(f) following
roximately a normal distribution of mean µ = = 5.07 (corresponding to 159 kPa), the largest
sured tension (in a pilus) being 1900 kPa (Fig. 2A). However, a much better description is
ained if1A). Since the slope of the distribution changes rapidly for f values larger than=
kPa are set aside. The remaining (90%) f values follow, we have also plotted the distribution
f data smaller than this value (90% of the total), which follow very closely a normal
ribution of mean ± s.d. = 161 ± 78 kPa (Fig. 2B). The tension1B). Fig. 1C compares the
ions f of molecular and non-molecular motors, which follow distributions that are not
ificantly different, close to lognormal for all values (Fig. 2C) and normal for f < 350 kPa
. 2D). The same properties hold for locomotors and non-locomotors (Fig. 2E, F), except that
f < 350 kPa tensions in locomotors and non-locomotors are significantly different (Fig. 2F).
.
Motors developing tensions higher than 350 kPa are found in both microorganisms and large
mals. In the former, the only ones are pili. In the latter, 23 of 29 (80 %) are whole muscles
sured in vivo (MV) in crustaceans (claw closers) and insects (jump muscles). We shall return
his point later.
Differences exist depending on motor types, taxonomic groups and functional groups
ig. 32 shows that the tension for bacterial pili (PI, median 685 kPa, interquartile range IQR
kPa, n = 6) is clearly an outlier with respect to all other motors (median 167 kPa, IQR
kPA, n = 343). Therefore, in all the following comparisons, pili are excluded.
Comparisons of tension without pili per motor types, taxonomic groups and motor functions
shown as boxplots in Fig. 4. Fig. 4A3 and the corresponding statistical tests (Anova and
ponse to reviewers Page 9
tiple comparison of means) are given in Supplementary Tables S1 to S6. Figs. 3A and 3B for
or types indicatesindicate that muscles in vivo significantly differ from single molecules M1,
es and muscles in vitro. Non-locomotors are different from M1 and fibres (Fig. 4B).
essentially because of the large tensions of non-locomotor muscles. Comparisons of
onomic groups with number of f values = 5 (pili excluded) show that crustaceans differ from
other groups (all motors, Fig. 3C). 4C). Tension in locomotors of amphibians differ from that
irds and non-locomotors differ from locomotors in fish and birds (Fig. 4D).
inally, comparison of motor functions show that motors used for flight have specific tensions
ificantly different from those of motors used for moving the organisms on (or with respect to)
lid substrate and non-locomotors differ from all three kinds of locomotors (Fig. 4E3E).
here is no large-scale variation with cell or body mass
Log-log plots of the 329 pairs of (M, f) values are shown in Fig. 4. Overall, values of cell and
y mass M range from 2 x 10-16 kg (bacterium) to 2500 kg (elephant) whereas values of
cific tension f range from 3.6 to 1944 kPa. Hence, whereas M varies by more than 19 orders of
nitude, f only varies by a factor of 500. For easier reading, polygons enclosing all points of
same category are shown: types of motors (Fig. 4B) and taxonomic groups (Fig. 4C).
Overall there is no large-scale variation with cell or body mass. Indeed, the power law
ession calculated for the entire data set is f = 159 Ma with a = -0.5×10-3 ± 7.7×10-3 (95%
fidence limits -8.2 × 10-3, 7.2 × 10-3) this slope is not significantly different from zero
= 0.90, Fig. 4A). The slope is not either different from zero for data restricted to molecular
ors (M1, M2 and MF, f = 83 Ma with a = -0.025 ± 0.037, P = 0.17, Fig. 4B on the left) and
-molecular motors (FI, MU, MV, f = 159 Ma with a = 0.0073 ± 0.020, P = 0.47, Fig. 4B on
right). Complete description and test of these global regressions are given in Supplementary
le S7.
We also looked for “local” trends based on the different categories defined previously. For
or types some slight positive and negative slopes of the regression lines f vs. M were found
bles S8 and S9). For taxonomic groups (Tables S10 and S11) and motor functions (Table
), either the slope is not significantly different from zero (according to the F test at level 1 %),
he slope is smaller or equal to 0.02 in absolute value.
ponse to reviewers Page 10
CUSSION
We discuss in order the fundamental invariancechoice of specific tension for normalizing
es developed by widely different motors, the similarity of specific tension in molecular and
-molecular motors, the factors explaining the variability of tension, especially in muscles, and
relationship between tension invariance and force-mass scaling.
pecific tension as a size-independent measure of force
n order to compare forces developed by biological motors as different as molecules and
scles, whose spatial scale varies by nearly 7 orders of magnitude and whose applied force
es by nearly 14 orders of magnitude, it is useful to express them in relative values. Because
st non-molecular motor forces F (FI, MU, MV) are expressed as specific tension (F/A) in the
ature, it is natural to try to express molecular motors similarly.
Since F/A is not available for molecular motors, in order to avoid bias, we defined the cross-
ion A in the most basic way, i.e. from the volume V as A = V2/3, which holds for a cube and
holds in order of magnitude for shapes of moderate elongation. This is in line with results by
dler & Allen (2002) who found F proportional to motor mass m2/3 for a class of molecular
ors, and to the fact that these forces depend on chemical bounds (mainly hydrogen bonds),
se number acting in parallel is expected to depend on the cross-section. For defining the
s-section, we were extremely careful to select the acting part of the motor (ignoring the
ssive” tails) so that the shape was of moderate elongation. For example to estimate the volume
he myosin motor, we only considered the heads and ignored the tail which does not contribute
he actin-myosin interaction. We will return to this topic in the last subsection (Scaling with
or’s mass), and suggest below an order-of-magnitude interpretation.
nvariance of specific tension in molecular and non-molecular motors
The main characteristics found here for the values of tension f in both molecular (M1, M2,
) and non-molecular motors (FI, MU, MV) are (see Table 4): (i) their almost equal median
ions (~170 kPa), (ii) their similar ranges of variation (60 < f < 350 kPa for 90% of motors)
(iii) the ~5 times higher tensions exerted by pili (600 < f < 2000 kPa). These three
racteristics can be readily accounted for byunderstood from basic physical considerations.
ponse to reviewers Page 11
Molecular motors
Molecular motors are proteins that produce mechanical energy by changing their 3D
formation. They move in steps whose length is of the order of magnitude of their size a0,
ch is typically a0 ~ 6 nm (Brocchieri and Karlin 2005, Erickson 2009). The steps are mainly
ered by ATP with free energy W0 <U+2243> <U+2243> 12kT <U+2243> 0.5×10-19 J/molecule at T = = 300 K (Fisher
Kolomeisky, 1999). Therefore, the elementary force F0 developed by motor proteins is of
er of magnitude F0 ~ W0/a0 ~ 8 pN and the corresponding force per unit cross-sectional area f
~ F0/a02 ~ ~ = W0/a03 ~ 200 kPa. This is remarkably close to the average value found for
ecular motors (M1, M2 and MF, Table 4). This order-of-magnitude estimate is based on a
ect transduction of chemical into mechanical energy. Taking into account the actual
ciency would not change this order of magnitude since molecular motors are known to have a
h efficiency – often exceeding 50 % (e.g. Bustamante 2001, Hess et al. 2014), in particular 80-
% for kinesin (Fisher and Kolomeisky 1999), and up to 100 % for F1-ATPase (Yasuda et al.
8).
Molecular motors, like other proteins, owe their properties to a 3D structure mainly held by H-
ds and other weak forces (Bao and Suresh, 2003; Schliwa and Woehlke, 2003). In order to act
r (but not at) thermal equilibrium and not to break the motor protein, the elementary motor
e should not exceed kT divided by the distance over which H-bonds operate, i.e. the size of
water molecule, aH2O <U+2243> <U+2243> 0.3 nm. This yields the minimum size, a0 > aH2O × × (W0/kT)
nm, and maximum tension, f <U+2243> <U+2243> W0/a03 < 800 kPa, of molecular motors. This order of
nitude estimate is similar to the maximum tension observed in molecular motors (Table 4)
h the notable exception of pili.
ili, which are virtually universal in prokaryotes (Berry and Pelicia, 2015), have exceptional
hanical properties of stretching and adhesion, and some of them can withstand extreme
es, with an important role played by covalent bonds (e.g. Alegre-Cebollada et al., 2010) so
the above order-of-magnitude estimate, based on weak forces, does not apply to them. In
er to compare pili with other structures, we have only considered steady-state unwinding
es (e.g. Andersson et al. 2006). Even then, pili can still reach extreme specific tensions, with
edian 4 times higher than that of other motors.
ponse to reviewers Page 12
Non-molecular motors
The most striking result of the present paper is that the formally-defined tension of molecular
ors turns out to be similar to the value f <U+2243> <U+2243> 200 kPa typical of muscle fibres. A hint to this
ormity stems from the basic structurearrangement of myosin motors in striated muscles
iewed in e.g. Huxley, 1985 and Craig and Woodhead, 2006). Most of the space within muscle
es is occupied by protein thick filaments along which groups of myosin globular motors
eads”) are protruding with an axial spacing e = = 14.6 nm. These motors are cyclically
ching to (and detaching from) adjacent thin filaments of actin to form the cross-bridges, and
ble thin and thick filaments to slide past each other. Along each half thick filament (of total
th 2l <U+2243> <U+2243> 1.6 µm, neglecting for this order-of-magnitude estimate a bare zone of smaller
th free of motors) about 150 myosin molecules exert forces that add in parallel and only
ut one-third of the cross-bridges are attached during isometric contraction (Piazzesi et al.
2, Batters et al., 2014). Therefore the number of active individual myosin motors along each
thick filament is N <U+2243> <U+2243> 50. (Note that since l/e <U+2243> <U+2243> 50, this might imply that only one
or per group of three can attach simultaneously, a likely consequence of steric constraints
ught about by the 3-D structure enabling transitory conformational changes). With N motors
ng in parallel each exerting a force Fmyosin the total force per thick filament is NFmyosin. Each
k filament and its associated lattice of thin filaments occupies an equivalent cross-section
d 2, where d <U+2243> <U+2243> 40 nm is the lateral spacing of thick filaments, so the total tension in the
cture is ffibre <U+2243> NFmyosin/s which acts (in series) along the length of the fibre. Tables 2 and 3
w that the myosin motor, of equivalent cross-sectional area A <U+2243> <U+2243> 36 nm2, exerts a mean
e Fmyosin <U+2243> fmyosin A <U+2243> 7 pN. Substituting the values of Fmyosin, N and s in the above formula
ds the tension in the structure ffibre <U+2243> 240 kPa.
This rough estimate enables to understand why the tension of muscles (<U+2243> ffibre) is of the same
er of magnitude as the tension of the myosin motor fmyosin <U+2243> 190 kPa. Indeed, the tensions of
scle fibres and of myosin motors are in the ratio ffibre/fmyosin <U+2243> N A/s, and the myosin motors
arranged so that the number N of them acting simultaneously in parallel is roughly equal to
ratio s/A of the equivalent cross-sectional area of each thick-thin filament structure to that of
ndividual myosin motor head, which is not surprising because of steric constraints.
ponse to reviewers Page 13
Origins of variability of specific tension in various motors
Overall, tensions in most molecular and non-molecular motors are distributed around their
ns according to practically identicalsimilar Gaussian curvesfunctions with coefficients of
ation s.d./mean <U+2243> 0.5. This variability may arise from bothmethodological, experimental and
ogical factors.
Methodological and experimental factors
everal approximations were made to compare the different systems, in particular to estimate
cross-sections of molecular motors. In muscles, theThe cross-section A of molecular motors
estimated from their mass m using the formulas A = V2/3 and V = m/<U+03C1> with protein density
10-3 pg.nm-3. This is admittedly rough, since the longer dimension of the motors considered
differ from the cross-diameter by nearly a factor of two. The resulting error may not be
ligible compared to the observed variability of specific tension in molecular motors, in which
e than 80 % of f values are within one-third of the median and twice the median (see Q10,
and median in Table 4, second line).
Although we did not have to estimate the cross-section for muscles, their tensions show the
e variability on f as molecular motors (Q10 is one-third the median and Q90 twice the
dian, see Table 4, third line). Their cross-sectional area has sometimes been corrected for the
occupied by mitochondria (dragonfly, Fitzhugh & Marden, 1997), sometimes not (beetle,
ephson et al., 2000), and never for the sarcoplasmic reticulum (e.g. Lindstedt et al., 1998). The
nation angle has not always been taken into account. Temperature during the experiments has
n noted and is usually close to the working temperature of the muscle. Although data are not
y homogeneous, the similarity of the distributions of specific tensions measured in vivo and in
o suggests that uncorrected factors do not introduce important bias. In principle, corrections
these factors should lead to less variable data. However no corrections have been attempted
two reasons. First, the information needed is not always provided, so corrections cannot be
e systematically. Second, these corrections would likely have no incidence on the qualitative
clusions, and might even be less convincing than unmodified data.
sometric tension in single skeletal muscle fibres (FI) is ~35% smaller than in whole muscles
U or MV) (Fig. 4A3A). This difference likely results from the experimental conditions, most
surements of single fibres being performed after chemical or mechanical skinning. It
ponse to reviewers Page 14
duces swelling of the fibres and reduces the specific tension. Median tension is about the same
whole muscles when measured in vitro (MU, 200 kPa) and in vivo (MV, 227 kPa) (Fig.
A, B). This indicates that the tension for muscles in behaving animals is close to the
ximum they can develop in in vitro conditions.
t must also be realized that detailed physiologically and ecologically relevant comparisons
ween similar motors in different taxonomic groups are hindered by their unequal levels of
estigation; for example, muscles MU have been studied in 29 vertebrate species but only 13
ertebrate species (Table 3).
Biological factors
However, the mainFurther sources of variability are likely biological. At the molecular level,
ability stems from differences within and across families of single motor proteins (M1). At
supramolecular level, notably in propulsion organelles and muscles, elementary molecular
es are expressed via an organization that introduces further variations and specific
ptations to the diversity of mechanical problems they had to solve. More factors being
olved, the values of their tension is a priori less easy to predict, explaining the variability
erved. Nonetheless, as shown in Fig. 4A3A, after removal of pili, the variability of specific
ion between the different types of molecular motors studied is larger in motors M1 and M2
in myofibrils. The structural and functional homogeneity of myofibrils contrasts with the
rogeneity of the other molecular motors.
Neglecting experimental errors and pili being set aside, tensions of non-molecular motors (FI,
, MV) vary approximately in the same range as tensions of molecular motors (M1, M2 and
) with the same statistical distribution (Fig. 2C1C, D). So, notwithstanding their myosin-based
ecular homogeneity, the diversity in geometry and adaptation of muscular motors leads to
ations in tension equivalent to those resulting from the diversity of molecules and their
ngements in molecular motors. It is remarkable that so different mechanisms lead to the same
l distributions of force per cross-sectional area at the microscopic and macroscopic levels.
Variability of tensions in whole muscles
The variability of tension in muscles has been the subject of thorough research. An important
ptive factor is sarcomere length. As predicted by the sliding filament model of muscle
ponse to reviewers Page 15
traction, long filaments and long overlap between thick and thin filaments should occur in
es with long sarcomeres. As in long overlap zones more actin-myosin cross-bridges should be
med, the maximum tension which a fibre can produce should be correlated with sarcomere
th (Gordon et al., 1966, Josephson, 1975). The resting sarcomere length exhibits little
ation in insect and vertebrate muscles (2-4 µm), but much greater variations in Crustacean
scles (7-17 µm). Overall, tension scales isometrically with the resting sarcomere length
ylor, 2000). In particular, the claw closer muscles of Cancer crabs exhibit both the longest
omere lengths and extreme mean crushing forces (525-1030 kPa; Table 3, Fig. 4C3C). This is
ecial adaptation of shell-crushing non-locomotory motors which is not found in locomotors
. 4D3D).
Many other factors have been invoked to explain the variations in muscle tension, such as the
sity of the myosin filaments, the non-uniformity of sarcomere length along the fibres, the
meter of myofibrillar bundles, the actin:myosin filament ratios and the cross-bridge duty
ors. For example, the slightly higher tension than in other groups found in amphibians and
luscs (except crustaceans; Fig. 4C3C) may be explained by their higher proportion of fast
dative fibres and their higher relative myofibrillar volume (Lindstedt et al., 1998; Medler,
2). However, these various factors apparently play a minor role in arthropod and vertebrate
scles since more than 80% of the variation in muscle tension in a series of muscles from these
ups can be explained by the resting sarcomere length (Taylor, 2000 and references therein).
Two characteristics other than tension contribute to muscle performance: speed of contraction
d relaxation) and endurance. They influence tension because high tension requires that most of
cross-sectional area of a fibre be myofibrils, whereas high endurance requires a large
ochondrial volume and short twitch duration requires an extended sarcoplasmic reticulum.
refore trade-offs are inherent in the functional design of muscles so that a muscle cannot be
ultaneously strong, enduring and rapid. This is the reason why rapid muscles are weak (either
uring, e.g. katytid singing muscles, or not, e.g. lobster sound-producing muscles with their
ertrophied SR) (Josephson, 1975). However, special adaptations in the oscillatory
nchronous) flight muscles of insects result in high contraction frequencies without a large
ume of SR, which leaves room for more mitochondria, but their strength is nevertheless
ited by the endurance requirements of flight (Josephson, 1975). They are built optimally for
ximum output of energy in their narrow contraction range, whereas most vertebrate
ponse to reviewers Page 16
omeres are optimized for optimal mechanical conversion of chemical energy across a wider
traction range (Otten, 1987). These different adaptions contribute to the variability observed.
rall, the similarity of muscle tensions is essentially due to the similarity of fibre structure and
k filament length across muscles and species, in contrast to the variability of muscle speeds
ch are affected by the variability of thin filament lengths (e.g. Gokhin et al. 2012).
t is remarkable that tension is smaller in flight locomotors (median 79 kPa) than in terrestrial
omotors (median 187 kPa) and in swim locomotors (183 kPa), although only the difference for
estrial locomotors is significant according to Anova at level 5 % (Fig. 4E3E). Despite the high
er needed for flight, the high frequencies required may impose a large concentration of
ochondria and, at least in birds, of sarcoplasmic reticulum at the expense of myofibrils.
ving this issue will need further investigations.
Absence of large-scale trend with cell’s or body’s mass
Given the constancy in both central value (mean or median) and dispersion (S.D. or
rquartile range) of f in molecular and non-molecular motors, it is not surprising that the
essions in log-log plot of f against M, the mass of the cell (for subcellular motors) or body
cellular and supracellular motors) from which the motor is extracted, give no evidence of
rall trend (Fig. 4A and 4B). Other variables for the mass might be used, but their implemation
ifficult because they are often ill-defined or unknown. This is the reason why we chose for the
zontal axis a proxy of the mass that the motor moves – the mass of the next higher
archical level, i.e. the cell’s mass for subcellular motors (M1, M2, MF) and the animal’s mass
cellular and supracellular motors (FI, MU, MS). This definition is simple, unambiguous,
wn in almost all cases and discriminant with a range extending over 18 orders of magnitude.
e had chosen the motor’s mass m for the horizontal axis, the range would have been still
er since the minimum mass would be 10-22 kg (kinesin) and the maximum mass >1 kg
scle), so that since the overall range of f would remain the same, the slope of the regression
would become still closer to zero.
The absence of global trends does not preclude the existence of “local” trends, i. e. regression
s with slope significantly different from zero, for specific classes of motor extending on a
ower mass range. Several examples of such significant trends were found (see Tables S8 to
) but their slopes are small and difficult to interpret. These small-scale relationships are
ponse to reviewers Page 17
side the scope of the present paper which focuses on a large-scale study. The wide range of
, mass and area considered allows one to transcend the possible variations specific to certain
gories.
caling with motor’s mass
A different approach based on force F and motor mass m strengthens this conclusion. Indeed,
rden and Allen (2002) have studied the scaling of forces with motor’s mass for two classes of
mal- and human-made motors., and found that one of them, ‘Group 1’ motors, producing
slational motion, scale allometrically with motor mass m, as F <U+2243> 103 m2/3 (with F in N and m
g). We show below that this scaling, expressed in terms of specific tension f, is in good
eement with the typical specific tension found in the present paper (~ 200 kPa). Let
onsider first approximate the motors asorder-of-magnitude approximation of cubes of section
With the mass density <U+03C1> <U+2243> 103 kg/m3, the motor mass is m <U+2243> <U+03C1>S3<U+03C1>A3/2, so that the scaling
ve F <U+2243> 103 (<U+03C1>S3<U+03C1>A3/2)2/3 yields the tension f = F/SA <U+2243> 103 <U+03C1>2/3 <U+2243> 100 kPa. This is a minimum
ue since replacing the cubic approximation by a more realistican elongated shape, with a ratio
th/width r, with width d <U+2243> S1A1/2, we obtainwould yield m <U+2243> r<U+03C1>S3r<U+03C1>A3/2, whence
103 (r<U+03C1>)2100 r2/3, which yields f <U+2243> 200 kPa if r <U+2243> 3. Thus, the mass-force scaling for Group 1
ors found by Marden and Allen (2002) implies the constancy of their specific tension with a
stant value consistent with that found here.
The above argument might also explain why three “molecular motors” corresponding in part
ur “M2 motors” (bacterial flagellum, mammalian flagellum, and spasmoneme) are shifted to
right of the fitted line (see red circles in Fig. 1 of the paper quoted above). Indeed, the mass m
sidered is the mass of the whole organelle, whose length far exceeds the square root of the
ion (i.e. r >> >> 1). This implies that m is much larger than <U+03C1>S3<U+03C1>A3/2, so that a constant value
yields a smaller value of F/m2/3.
However, for the other group of motors (‘Group 2’) defined by Marden and Allen (2002), the
ogical motor forces are generally deduced from the motion of the whole organism against
vity, which implies various joints and lever arms connecting the motor to the organism. It is
efore difficult to compare these data with those considered in the present paper, which are
ctly measured at the level of the muscle (or of the fibre or the molecular motor).
ponse to reviewers Page 18
NCLUDING REMARKS
The main result of this paper is that, despite their diversity, molecular and macroscopic
ogical motors do exert similar forces per unit cross-sectional area, which enables us to unify
ogical motors of hugely different sizes and varied functions, from the motion of animals and
ro-organisms to cargo transport in cells or DNA transcription. The similarity of tensions of
roscopic muscles and fibres is not surprising as it stems from the similarity of fibres basic
itecture. In turn, the similarity of the tensions of molecular motors is due to the basic physical
perties of protein machines, and we have given an order-of-magnitude estimate of this tension
m basic physics. Finally, we have shown that the tension in muscle fibres is similar to that of
myosin motor in particular because of the arrangement of these motors in the fibres, due to
ic constraints.
The approximate constancy of the maximum force per unit area f found in the present paper
m molecules to muscles implies general scaling laws for the motion of organisms (Meyer-
net and Rospars, 2015) and raises the question of relating these laws to basic biological and
sical constraints (Meyer-Vernet and Rospars, unpublished).. Moreover, it calls for an
lanation of why human-engineered motors, which are not based on ATP hydrolysis and
rogen bond forces, show very similar specific tension to biological motors (see Fig. 1 in
rden and Allen, 2002, Marden 2005).
T OF ABBREVIATIONS
Al, algae;
Am, amphibian;
Ar, Arachnids;
Ba, bacteria;
Bi, birds;
Cr, crustaceans;
DA, axonemal dynein;
DC, cytoplasmic dynein;
ponse to reviewers Page 19
Ec, echinoderms;
, specific tension of motors;
A, F0/F1 ATPase;
I, muscular fibre;
i, fish;
L, flagellum;
ly, fly locomotors;
u, fungi;
n, insects;
QR, interquartile range;
KI, kinesin;
m, mass of molecular motors;
M, mass of organisms;
M1, single molecule;
M2, molecular assembly;
Ma, mammals;
MF, myofibril;
Mo, molluscs;
MU, muscle in vitro;
MV, muscle in vivo;
MY, myosin;
Non-loc, non-locomotory;
I, pili;
r, protozoa;
Re, reptiles;
RN, RNA polymerase;
P, spasmoneme;
wim, swim locomotors;
Terr, terrestrial locomotors.
COMPETING INTERESTS
ponse to reviewers Page 20
The authors declare no competing financial interests.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
.P.R. and N.M.V. each made significant and substantial contributions to this study in terms of
conception, design, data collection and interpretation of results, as well as preparing the
nuscript. J.P.R. made the statistical analyses.
ponse to reviewers Page 21
FERENCES
gre-Cebollada, J., Badilla, C. L. and Fernandez, J. M. (2010) Isopeptide bonds block the
mechanical extension of pili in pathogenic Streptococcus pyogenes. J. Biol. Chem. 285,
11235-11242.
xander, R. M. (1974). The mechanics of jumping by a dog (Canis familiaris). J. Zool. Lond.
173, 549-573.
xander, R. M. and Vernon, A. (1975). The mechanics of hopping by kangaroos
(Macropodidae). J. Zool. Lond. 177, 265-303.
xander, R. M., Maloiy, G. M. O., Hunter , B., Jayes, A. S. and Nturibi, J. (1979). Mechanical
stresses in fast locomotion of buffalo (Syncerus caffer) and elephant (Loxodonta africana). J.
Zool., Lond. 189, 135-144.
ingham, J. D. and Johnston I. A. (1982). The pCa-tension and force-velocity characteristics of
skinned fibres isolated from fish fast and slow muscles. J. Physiol. Lond. 333, 421-449.
ersson, M., Fällman, E., Uhlin, B. E. and Axner, O. (2006). Dynamic force spectroscopy of
E. coli P pili. Biophys. J. 91, 2717-2725.
ew, G. N. and Marsh, R. L. (1997). The effects of length trajectory on the mechanical power
output of mouse skeletal muscles. J. Exp. Biol. 200, 3119-3131.
ew, G. N. and Marsh, R. L. (2001). The mechanical power output of the pectoralis muscle of
the blue-breasted quail (Coturnix chinensis): the in vivo length cycle and its implications for
muscle performance. J. Exp. Biol. 204, 3587-3600.
ew, G. N., Marsh, R. L. and Ellington, C. P. (2001). The mechanical power output of the
flight muscles of blue-breasted quail (Coturnix chinensis) during take-off. J. Exp. Biol. 204,
3601-3619.
mussen, G. and Maréchal, G. (1989). Maximal shortening velocities, isomyosins and fibre
types in soleus muscle of mice, rats, and guinea-pigs. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 416, 245-254.
mussen, G., Beckers-Bleukx, G. and Maréchal, G. (1994). The force-velocity relation of the
rabbit inferior oblique muscle: influence of temperature. Pflügers Arch. Eur. J. Physiol. 426,
542-547.
, G. and Suresh, S. (2003). Cell and molecular mechanics of biological materials. Nature
materials 2, 715-725.
ponse to reviewers Page 22
clay, C. J., Constable, J. K. and Gibbs, C. L. (1993). Energetics of fast- and slow-twitch
muscles of the mouse. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 472, 61-80.
ány, M. and Close, R. I. (1971). The transformation of myosin in cross-innervated rat
muscles. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 213, 455-474.
ters, C., Veigel, C., Homsher, E. and Sellers, J. R. (2014) To understand muscle you must take
it apart. Frontiers in Physiology, 5, article 90, 1-14.
net-Clark, H. C. (1975). The energetics of the jump of the locust Schistocerca gregaria. J.
Exp. Biol. 63, 53-83.
net-Clark, H. C. and Lucey, E. C. A. (1967). The jump of the flea: a study of the energetics
and a model of the mechanism. J. Exp. Biol. 47, 59-76.
g, H. C. (1995). Torque generation by the flagellar rotary motor. Biophys. J. 68, 163s-167s.
g, H. C. (2003). The rotary motor of bacterial flagella. Annu. Rev. Biochem. 72:19-54.
ry, R. M. and Berg, H. C. (1997). Absence of a barrier to backwards rotation of the bacterial
flagellar motor demonstrated with optical tweezers. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94, 14433-
14437.
ry, J.-L. and Pelicia, V. (2015). Exceptionally widespread nanomachines composed of type IV
pilins: the prokaryotic swiss army knives. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 39, 134-154.
is, N., Ladoux, B., Higashi, D., So, M., and Sheetz, M. (2008). Cooperative retraction of
bundled type IV pili enables nanonewton force generation. PLoS Biol. 6(4): e87.
doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0060087
wener, A. A. (1998). Muscle-tendon stresses and elastic energy storage during locomotion in
the horse. Comp. Biochem. Physiol. B 120, 73-87.
wener, A. A. and Baudinette, R. V. (1995). In vivo muscle force and elastic energy storage
during steady-speed hopping of tammar wallabies (Macropus eugenii). J. Exp. Biol. 198,
1829-1841.
wener, A. A. and Blickhan, R. (1988). Kangaroo rat locomotion: design for elastic energy
storage or acceleration? J. Exp. Biol. 140, 243-255.
wener A. A. and Corning, W. R. (2001). Dynamics of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)
gastrocnemius function during swimming versus terrestrial locomotion. J. Exp. Biol. 204,
1745-1756.
ponse to reviewers Page 23
wener, A. A., Blickhan, R., Perry, A. K., Heglund, N. C. and Taylor, C. R. (1988). Muscle
forces during locomotion in kangaroo rats: force platform and tendon buckle measurements
compared. J. Exp. Biol. 137, 191-205.
wener, A. A., Dial, K. P. and Goslow, G. E. (1992). Pectoralis muscle force and power output
during flight in the starling. J. Exp. Biol. 164, 1-18.
ington, N., Revill, D. J., Burgess, S. A., Chantler, P. D. and Knight, P. J. (2014). Flexibility
within the heads of muscle myosin-2 molecules. J. Mol. Biol. 426, 894-907.
ck, S. M. (1998). Kinesin: what gives? Cell 93, 5-8.
ndon, J. A. (1988). Morphology and muscle stress of chelae of temperate and tropical stone
crabs Menippe mercenaria. J. Zool. Lond. 215, 663-673.
tinelli, R., Canepari, M. Pellegrino, M. A. and Reggiani, C. (1996). Force-velocity properties
of human skeletal muscle fibres: myosin heavy chain isoform and temperature dependence.
J. Physiol. (Lond.) 495.2, 573-586.
tinelli, R., Canepari, M., Reggiani, C. and Stienen, G. J. M. (1994). Myofibrillar ATPase
activity during isometric contraction and isomyosin composition in rat single skinned muscle
fibres. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 481.3, 663-675.
ndt, P. W., Colomo, F., Piroddi, N., Poggesi, C. and Tesi, C. (1998). Force regulation by Ca2+
in skinned single cardiac myocytes of frog. Biophys. J. 74, 1994-2004.
cchieri, L. and Karlin S. (2005) Protein length in eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteomes.
Nucleic Acids Res., 33, 3390-3400.
ke, R. E. and Tsairis, P. (1973). Anatomy and innervation ratios in motor units of cat
gastrocnemius. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 234, 749-765.
tamante, C., Keller, D. and Oster, G. (2001) The physics of molecular motors. Acc. Chem.
Res., 34, 412-420.
ter, A. P., Cho, C., Jin, L. and Vale, R. D. (2011). Crystal structure of the dynein motor
domain. Science 331, 1159-1165.
se, R. (1972). Dynamic properties of mammalian skeletal muscles. Physiol. Rev. 52, 129-197.
omo, F., Piroddi, N., Pogegesi, C., te Kronnie, G. and Tesi, C. (1997) Active and passive
forces of isolated myofibrils from cardiac and fast skeletal muscle of the frog. J. Physiol.
500.2, 535-548.
ponse to reviewers Page 24
ghlin, D. J., Zhang, G. and Rome, L. C. (1996). Contraction dynamics and power production
of pink muscle of the scup (Stenotumus chrysops). J Exp Biol 199, 2703–2712.
ig, R. and Woodhead, J. L. (2006). Structure and function of myosin filaments. Current
Opinion in Structural Biology 16, 204-212.
tin, N. A. and Woledge, R. C. (1988). Power output and force-velocity relationship of live
fibres from white myotomal muscle of the dogfish, Scyliorhinus canicula. J. Exp. Biol. 140,
187-197.
ey, M. A. and Biewener, A. A. (2003). Muscle force-length dynamics during level versus
incline locomotion: a comparison of in vivo performance of two guinea fowl ankle extensors.
J. Exp. Biol. 206, 2941-2958.
nton, N. C., Turner, L., Rojevski, S. and Berg H. C. (2007). On torque and tumbling in
swimming Escherichia coli. J. Bacteriol. 189: 1756-1764.
ies, C. T. M., Thomas, D. O. and White, M. J. (1986). Mechanical properties of young and
elderly human muscle. Acta Med. Scand., Suppl. 711, 219-226.
l, K. P. and Biewener, A. A. (1993). Pectoralis muscle force and power output during
different modes of flight in pigeons (Columba livia). J. Exp. Biol. 176, 31-54.
kinson, M. H. and Lighton, J. R. B. (1995). Muscle efficiency and elastic storage in the flight
motor of Drosophila. Science 268, 87-90.
er, R. W. and Campbell, A. (1981). Force, function and mechanical advantage in the chelae of
the American lobster Homarus americanus (Decapoda: Crustacea). J. Zool. Lond. 193, 269-
286.
e, P. L. and Bennet, A. F. (1987). The thermal dependence of locomotor performance and
muscle contractile function in the salamander Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum. J. Exp. Biol.
128, 219-233.
kson, H. P. (2009) Size and shape of protein molecules at the nanometer level determined by
sedimentation, gel filtration, and electron microscopy. Biological Procedures Online (ed. S.
Li), 11, 32-51.
kine, R. M., Jones, D. A., Maganaris, C. N. and Degens, H. (2009). In vivo specific tension of
the human quadriceps femoris muscle. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. 106, 827-838.
ponse to reviewers Page 25
ma, G. J. C. (1996). Elastic and length-force characteristics of the gastrocnemius of the
hopping mouse (Notomys alexis) and the rat (Rattus norvegicus). J. Exp. Biol. 199, 1277-
1285.
ns, M. E. G. (1973). The jump of the click beetle (Coleoptera: E1ateridae) - energetics and
mechanics. J. Zool., Lond. 169, 181-194.
man, E., Schedin, S., Jass, J., Uhlin, B.-E. and Axner, O. (2005). The unfolding of the P pili
quaternary structure by stretching is reversible, not plastic. EMBO Reports 6, 52-56.
er, J. T., Simmons, R. M. and Spudich, J. A. (1994). Single myosin molecule mechanics:
piconewton forces and nanometre steps. Nature (Lond.) 368, 113-119.
er, M. E. and Kolomeisky, A. B. (1999) Molecular motors and the forces they exert. Physica
A 274, 241-266.
s, R. H., Desplanches, D., Romatowski, J. G. and Widrick, J. J. (2000). Spaceflight effects on
single skeletal muscle fiber function in the rhesus monkey. Am. J. Physiol. Regulatory
Integrative Comp. Physiol. 279, R1546-R1557.
hugh, G. H. and Marden, J. H. (1997). Maturational changes in troponin T expression, Ca2+-
sensitivity and twitch contraction kinetics in dragonfly flight muscle. J. Exp. Biol. 200, 1473-
1482.
nklin, C. E. and Johnston, I. A. (1997). Muscle power output during escape responses in an
Antarctic fish. J. Exp. Biol. 200, 703-712.
unaga, T., Roy, R. R., Shellock, F. G., Hodgson, J. A. and Edgerton, V. R. (1996). Specific
tension of human plantar flexors and dorsiflexors. J. Appl. Physiol. 80, 158-165.
nerich, A., Carter, A. P., Reck-Peterson, S. L., and Vale, R. D. (2007). Force-induced
bidirectional stepping of cytoplasmic dynein. Cell 131, 952-965.
mour, K.M. and Ellington, C. P. (1993). Power output of glycerinated bumblebee flight
muscle. J. Exp. Biol. 183, 77-100.
fart, M. and Ritchie, J. M. (1952). The effect of adrenaline on the contraction of mammalian
skeletal muscle. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 116, 357-371.
hin, D. S., Kim, E. N., Lewis, S. A., Hoenecke, H. R., D’Lima, D. D. and Fowler, V. M.
(2012). Thin-filament length correlates with fiber type in human skeletal muscle. Am. J.
Physiol. Cell. Physiol. 302, C555-C565.
dman, Y. E. (1998). Wag the tail: structural dynamics of actomyosin. Cell 93, 1-4.
ponse to reviewers Page 26
don, A. M., Huxley, A. F. and Julian, F. J. (1966) The variation in isometric tension with
sarcomere length in vertebrate muscle fibres. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 184, 170-192.
ind, C. K. and Blundon, J. A. (1985). Form and function of the asymmetric chelae in blue
crabs with normal and reversed handedness. Biol. Bull. 168, 321-331.
ens, J., Dirck, J., Dierick, M., Van Hoorebeke, L. and Aerts, P. (2014) Biomechanical
determinants of bite force dimorphism in Cyclommatus metallifer stag beetles. J. exp. Biol.
217, 1065-1071.
aser, M. L., Moss, R. L. and Reiser, P. J. (1988). Variations in contractile properties of rabbit
single muscle fibres in relation to troponin T isoforms and myosin light chains. J. Physiol.
(Lond.) 406, 85-98.
nzier, H. L. M., Wiersma, J., Akster, H. A. and Osse, J. W. M. (1983). Contractile properties
of a white- and a red-fibre type of the M. hyohyoideus of the carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). J.
Comp. Physiol. B 149, 441-449.
ss, S. P., Welte, M. A., Block, S. M., and Wieschaus, E. F. (2000). Dynein-mediated cargo
transport in vivo: a switch controls travel distance. J. Cell Biol. 148, 945-955.
ton, H. A. (1944). Absolute muscle force in the ankle flexors of man. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 103,
267-273.
thoff, M. and Koerner, L. (2007). Small but powerful: the oribatid mite Archegozetes
longisetosus Aoki (Acari, Oribatida) produces disproportionately high forces. J. Exp. Biol.
210, 3036-3042.
zog, W., Leonard, T. R. and Guimaraes, A. C. S. (1993). Forces in gastrocnemius, soleus and
plantaris muscles for the freely moving cat. J. Biomech. 26, 945-953.
s, H., Bachand, G.D. and Vogel, V. (2004) Powering nanodevices with biomolecular motors.
Chem. Eur. J. 10, 2110-2116.
ushi, H., Muto, E., Inoue, Y. and Yanagida, T. (1997). Kinetics of force generation by single
kinesin molecules activated by laser photolysis of caged ATP. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94,
4395-4400.
akawa, E., Higuchi, H. and Toyoshima, Y. Y. (2000). Processive movement of single 22S
dynein molecules occurs only at low ATP concentrations. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97,
2533-2537.
ponse to reviewers Page 27
fmann, J., Sokolova, L., Preiss, L., Hicks, D. B., Krulwich, T. A., Morgner, N., Wittig, I.,
Schlägger, H., Meier, T. and Brutschy, B. (2010). ATP synthases: cellular nanomotors
characterized by LILBID mass spectrometry. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 12, 13375-13382.
comb-Wygle, D. L., Schmitz, K. A. and Lindemann, C. B. (1999) Flagellar arrest behavior
predicted by the geometric clutch model is confirmed experimentally by micromanipulation
experiments on reactivated bull sperm. Cell Mot. Cytosk. 44, 177-189.
mes, J. M., Hilber, K., Galler, S. and Neil, D. M. (1999). Shortening properties of two
biochemically defined muscle fibre types of the Norway lobster Nephrops norvegicus L. J.
Muscle Res. Cell. Motil. 20, 265-278.
t, A. J., Gittes, F. and Howard, J. (1994). The force exerted by a single kinesin molecule
against a viscous load Biophys. J. 67, 766-781.
xley, H. E. (1985). The crossbridge mechanism of muscular contraction and its implications. J.
Exp. Biol. 115, 17-30.
jima, A., Harada, Y., Kojima, H., Funatsu, T., Higuchi, H. and Yanagida, T. (1994). Single-
molecule analysis of the actomyosin motor using nano-manipulation. Biochem. and Biophys.
Res. Comm. 199, 1057-1063.
romi, S. S. and Atwood, H. L. (1969). Correlation of structure, speed of contraction, and total
tension in fast and slow abdominal muscle fibers of the lobster (Homarus americanus). J.
Exp. Zool. 171, 25-38.
es, R. S., Cole, N. J., Davies, M. L. F. and Johnston, I. A. (1998). Scaling of intrinsic
contractile properties and myofibrillar protein composition of fast muscles in the fish
Myoxocephalus scorpius L. J. Exp. Biol. 201, 901-912.
ison, D. K., Driver, J. W., Rogers, A. R., Constantinou, P. E. and Diehl, M. R. (2010). Two
kinesins transport cargo primarily via the action of one motor: implications for intracellular
transport. Biophys. J. 99, 2967-2977.
, J., Schedin, S., Fällman, E., Ohlsson, J., Nilsson, U. J., Uhlin, B. E. and Axner, O. (2004).
Physical properties of Escherichia coli P Pili measured by optical tweezers. Biophys. J. 87,
4271-4283.
es, A. S. and Alexander, R. M. (1982). Estimates of mechanical stresses in leg muscles of
galloping Greyhounds (Canis familiaris). J. Zool., Lond. 198, 315-328.
ponse to reviewers Page 28
nston, I. A. and Altringham, J. D. (1985). Evolutionary adaptation of muscle power output to
environmental temperature: force-velocity characteristics of skinned fibres isolated from
antarctic, temperate and tropical marine fish. Pflügers Archiv Eur. J. Physiol. 405: 136-140.
nston, I. A. and Brill, R. (1984). Thermal dependence of contractile properties of single
skinned muscle fibres from Antarctic and various warm water marine fishes including
Skipjack Tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) and Kawakawa (Euthynnus affinis). J. Comp. Physiol.
B 155, 63-70.
nston, I. A. and Salamonski, J. (1984). Power output and force-velocity relationship of red
and white muscle fibres from the pacific blue marlin (Makaira nigricans). J. Exp. Biol. 111,
171-177.
ephson, R. K. (1975). Extensive and intensive factors determining the performance of striated
muscle. J. Exp. Zool. 194, 135-153.
ephson, R. K. (1984). Contraction dynamics of flight and stridulatory muscles of Tettigoniid
insects. J. Exp. Biol. 108, 77-96.
ephson, R. K. and Ellington, C. P. (1997). Power output from a flight muscle of the
bumblebee Bombus terrestris. I. Some features of the dorso-ventral flight muscle. J. Exp.
Biol. 200, 1215-1226.
ephson, R. K., Malamud, J. G. and Stokes, D. R. (2000). Power output by an asynchronous
flight muscle from a beetle. J. Exp. Biol. 203, 2667-2689.
ser, D. (2000) Bacterial motility: How do pili pull? Curr. Biol. 10, R777-R780.
da, K. and Hashizume, K. (1992). Factors causing difference in force output among motor
units in the rat medial gastrocnemius muscle. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 448, 677-695.
ehisa, H., Ikegawa, S. and Fukunaga, T. (1994). Comparison of muscle cross-sectional area
and strength between untrained women and men. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. 68, 148-154.
n, T.A. and Noakes, T.D. (2013) Lion (Panthera leo) and caracal (Caracal caracal) type IIx
single muscle fibre force and power exceed that of trained humans. J. Exp. Biol. 216, 960-
969.
ima, H., Muto, E., Higuchi, H. and Yanagida, T. (1997). Mechanics of single kinesin
molecules measured by optical trapping nanometry. Biophys. J. 73, 2012-2022.
ger, M., Zittrich, S., Redwood, C., Blaudeck, N., James, J., Robbins, J., Pfitzer, G. and Stehle,
R. (2005) Effects of the mutation R145G in human cardiac troponin I on the kinetics of the
ponse to reviewers Page 29
contraction–relaxation cycle in isolated cardiac myofibrils. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 564.2, 347-
357.
nergren, J. (1978). The force-velocity relation of isolated twitch and slow muscle fibres of
Xenopus laevis. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 283, 501-521.
ari, M., Dobbie, I., Reconditi, M., Koubassova, N., Irving, M., Piazzesi, G. and Lombardi, V.
(1998). The stiffness of skeletal muscle in isometric contraction and rigor: the fraction of
myosin heads bound to actin. Biophys. J. 74, 2459-2473.
ke, W. A., Popov, V. and Pollack, G. H. (1994) Passive and active tension in single cardiac
myofibrils. Biophysical J., 67, 782-792.
dstedt, S. L., McGlothlin, T., Percy, E. and Pifer, J. (1998). Task-specific design of skeletal
muscle: balancing muscle structural composition. Comp. Biochem. Physiol. B 120, 35-40.
, F., Curtin, N. A. and Woledge, R. C. (1997). The energetic cost of activation of white
muscle fibres from the dogfish Scyliorhinus canicula. J. Exp. Biol. 200, 495-501.
e, G., Meister, M. and Berg, H. C. (1987). Rapid rotation of flagellar bundles in swimming
bacteria. Nature 325, 637-640.
sson, L. and Moss, R. L. (1993). Maximum velocity of shortening in relation to myosin
isoform composition in single fibres from human skeletal muscles. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 472,
595-614.
f, A. R. (1981). Dynamic properties of the inferior rectus, extensor digitorum longus,
diaphragm and soleus muscles of the mouse. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 313, 161-171.
z, G. J. and Rome, L. C. (1996). Muscle function during jumping in frogs. II. Mechanical
properties of muscle: implications for system design. Am. J. Physiol. Cell Physiol. 271,
C571-C578.
ganaris, C. N. (2001). Force-length characteristics of in vivo human skeletal muscle. Acta
Physiol. Scand. 172, 279-285.
ganaris, C. N., Baltzopoulos, V., Ball, D. and Sargeant, A. J. (2001). In vivo specific tension
of human skeletal muscle. J. Appl. Physiol. 90, 865-872,
gariyama, Y., Sugiyama, S., Muramoto, K., Kawagishi, I., Imae, Y. and Kudo, S. (1995).
Simultaneous measurement of bacterial flagellar rotation rate and swimming speed. Biophys.
J. 89, 2154-2162.
ponse to reviewers Page 30
amud, J. G. and Josephson, R. K. (1991). Force-velocity relationships of a locust flight
muscle at different times during a twitch contraction. J. Exp. Biol. 159, 65-87.
lik, R., Carter, B. C., Lex, S. A., King, S. J. and Gross, S. P. (2004). Cytoplasmic dynein
functions as a gear in response to load. Nature 427, 649-652.
rden, J. H. (1995). Evolutionary adaptation of contractile performance in muscle of
ectothermic winter-flying moths. J. Exp. Biol. 198, 2087-2094.
rden, J. H. (2005). Scaling of maximum net force output by motors used for locomotion. J.
Exp. Biol. 208, 1653-1664.
rden, J. H. and Allen, L. R. (2002). Molecules, muscles, and machines: Universal performance
characteristics of motors. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99, 4161-4166.
rsh, R. L. (1988). Ontogenesis of contractile properties of skeletal muscle and sprint
performance in the lizard Dipsosaurus dorsalis. J. Exp. Biol. 137, 119-139.
rsh, R. L. and Bennet, A. F. (1986). Thermal dependence of contractile properties of skeletal
muscle from the lizard Sceloporus occidentalis with comments of methods for fitting and
comparing force-velocity curves. J. Exp. Biol. 126, 63-77.
Lister, J. D., Stevens, E. D. and Bogart, J. P. (1995). Comparative contractile dynamics of
calling and locomotor muscles in three hylid frogs. J. Exp. Biol. 198, 1527-1538.
dler, S. (2002). Comparative trends in shortening velocity and force production in skeletal
muscles. Am. J. Physiol. Regulatory Integrative Comp. Physiol. 283, R368-R378.
hta, A. D., Rief, M., Spudich, J. A., Smith, D. A. and Simmons, R. M. (1999). Single-
molecule biomechanics with optical methods. Science 283, 1689-1695.
rz, A. J., So, M. and Sheetz, M. P. (2000). Pilus retraction powers bacterial twitching motility.
Nature, 407, 98-102.
yer-Vernet, N. and Rospars, J.-P. (2015) How fast do living organisms move: maximum
speeds from bacteria to elephants and whales. Am. J. Phys. 83, 719-722.
yhöfer, E. and Howard, J. (1995). The force exerted by a single kinesin molecule against an
elastic load. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92, 574-578.
ler, E. Garcia, T., Hultgren, S. and Oberhauser, A. F. (2006). The Mechanical Properties of E.
coli Type 1 Pili Measured by Atomic Force Microscopy Techniques. Biophys. J. 91, 3848-
3856.
ponse to reviewers Page 31
ligan, B. J., Curtin, N. A. and Bone, Q. (1997). Contractile properties of obliquely striated
muscle from the mantle of squid (Alloteuthis subulata) and cuttlefish (Sepia officinalis). J.
Exp. Biol. 200, 2425-2436.
amino, T., Imada, K. and Namba, K. (2008). Molecular motors of the bacterial flagella.
Current Opinion in Structural Biology 18, 693-701
ata, H., Yoshikawa, H., Hakozaki, H., Suzuki, N., Furuno, T., Ikegami, A., Kinosita Jr., K.,
Nishizaka, T. and Ishiwata, S. (1995). Mechanical measurements of single actomyosin motor
force. Biophys. J. 68, 286s-290s.
oney, R. A. and Landick, R. (1999). RNA Polymerase unveiled. Cell 98, 687-690.
rgan, D. L., Proske, U. and Warren, D. (1978). Measurements of muscle stiffness and the
mechanism of elastic storage of energy in hopping kangaroos. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 282, 253-
261.
riyama, Y., Yasuda, K., Ishiwata, S and Asai, H. (1996). Ca2+-induced tension development in
the stalks of glycerinated Vorticella convallaria. Cell Motility and the Cytoskeleton 34, 271-
278.
tungi, G. and Johnston, I. A. (1987). The effects of temperature and pH on the contractile
properties of skinned muscle fibres from the terrapin, Pseudemys scripta elegans. J. Exp.
Biol. 128, 87-105.
amura, S., Kami-Ike, N., Yokota, J.-i. P., Kudo, S., Minamino, T. and Namba, K. (2009).
Effect of intracellular pH on the torque–speed relationship of bacterial proton-driven
flagellar motor. J. Mol. Biol. 386, 332-338.
ici, M. V., Landoni, L. and Minetti, A. E. (1992). Assessment of human knee extensor
muscles stress from in vivo physiological cross-sectional area and strength measurements.
Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. 65, 438-444.
hizaka, T., Miyata, H., Yoshikawa, H., Ishiwata, S. and Kinosita Jr., K. (1995). Mechanical
properties of single protein motor of muscle studied by optical tweezers. Biophys. J. 68, 75s.
hizaka, T., Miyata, H., Yoshikawa, H., Ishiwata, S. and Kinosita Jr., K. (1995). Unbinding
force of a single motor molecule of muscle measured using optical tweezers. Nature 377,
251-254.
i, H., Yasuda, R., Yoshida, M., and Kinosita Jr., K. (1997). Direct observation of the rotation
of F1-ATPase. Nature 386, 299-302.
ponse to reviewers Page 32
rien, T. D., Reeves, N. D., Baltzopoulos, V., Jones, D. A. and Maganaris, C. N. (2009). In
vivo measurements of muscle specific tension in adults and children. Exp. Physiol. 95.1, 202-
210.
on, J. M. and Marsh, R. L. (1998). Activation patterns and length changes in hindlimb
muscles of the bullfrog Rana catesbeiana during jumping. J. Exp. Biol. 201, 2763-2777.
en, E. (1987). Optimal design of vertebrate and insect sarcomeres. J. Morphol. 191, 49-62
egrino, M. A., Canepari, M., Rossi, R., D’Antona, G., Reggiani, C. and Bottinelli, R. (2003).
Orthologous myosin isoforms and scaling of shortening velocity with body size in mouse,
rat, rabbit and human muscles. J. Physiol. (Lond.), 546.3, 677-689.
lowski, M. M. and Marsh, R. L. (1997). Work and power output in the hindlimb muscles of
cuban tree frogs Osteopilus septentrionalis during jumping. J. Exp. Biol. 200, 2861-2870.
ry, A. K., Blickhan, R., Biewener, A. A., Heglund, N. C. and Taylor, C. R. (1988). Preferred
speeds in terrestrial vertebrates: are they equivalent? J. Exp. Biol. 137, 207-219.
ers, S. E. and Aulner, D. A. (2000) Sexual dimorphism in forelimb muscles of the bullfrog,
Rana catesbeiana: a functional analysis of isometric contractile properties. J. Exp. Biol. 203,
3639-3654.
zzesi, G., Reconditi, M., Linari, M., Lucii, L., Sun, Y.-B., Narayanan, T., Boesecke, P.,
Lombardi, V. and Irving, M. (2002). Mechanisms of force generation by myosin heads in
skeletal muscle. Nature 415, 659-662.
zzesi, G., Reconditi, M., Linari, M., Lucii, L., Bianco, P., Brunello, E., Decostre, V., Stewart,
A., Gore, D. B., Irving, T. C., Irving, M. and Lombardi, V. (2007). Skeletal muscle
performance determined by modulation of number of myosin motors rather than motor force
or stroke. Cell 131, 784-795.
ers, K., Schappacher-Tilp, G., Jinha, A., Leonard, T., Nishikawa, K. and Herzog, W. (2014)
Titin force is enhanced in actively stretched skeletal muscle. J. Exp. Biol. 217, 3629-3636.
atunga, K. W. (1982). Temperature-dependence of shortening velocity and rate of isometric
tension development in rat skeletal muscle. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 329, 465-483.
ment, I., Holden, H. M., Whittaker, M., Yohn, C. B., Lorenz, M., Holmes, K. C. and
Milligan, R. A. (1993). Structure of the actin-myosin complex and its implications for
muscle contraction. Science 261, 58-65.
ponse to reviewers Page 33
ment, I. and Holden, H. M (1994). The three-dimensional structure of a molecular motor.
TIBS 19, 129-134.
k-Peterson, S. L., Yildiz, A., Carter, A. P., Gennerich, A., Zhang, N. and Vale, R. D. (2006).
Single-molecule analysis of dynein processivity and stepping behavior. Cell 126, 335-348.
ves, N. D., Narici, M. V. and Maganaris, C. N. (2004). Effect of resistance training on
skeletal muscle-specific force in elderly humans. J. Appl. Physiol. 96, 885-892.
d, S. W, Leake, M. C., Chandler, J. H., Lo, C.-J., Armitage, J. P. and Berry, R. M. (2006). The
maximum number of torque-generating units in the flagellar motor of Escherichia coli is at
least 11. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 103, 8066-8071.
ser, P. J., Greaser, M. L. and Moss, R. L. (1996). Contractile properties and protein isoforms
of single fibers from the chicken pectoralis red strip muscle. J. Physiol. (Lond.) 493, 553-
562.
ser, P. J., Welch, Jr, K. C., Suarez, R. K. and Altshuler, D. L. (2013) Very low force-
generating ability and unusually high temperature dependency in hummingbird flight muscle
fibers. J. Exp. Biol. 216, 2247-2256.
me, L. C., Sosnicki, A. A. and Goble, D. O. (1990). Maximum velocity of shortening of three
fibre types from horse soleus muscle: implications for scaling with body size. J. Physiol.
(Lond.) 431, 173-185.
me, L. C. and Swank, D. (1992) The influence of temperature on power output of scup red
muscle during cyclical length changes. J. Exp. Biol. 171, 261-281.
me, L. C., Syme, D. A., Hollingworth, S., Lindstedt, S. L. and Baylor, S. M. (1996). The
whistle and the rattle: the design of sound producing muscles. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93,
8095-8100.
we, R. W. D. (1969). The effect of hypertrophy on the properties of skeletal muscle. Comp.
Biochem. Physiol. 28, 1449-1453.
herford, O. M. and Jones, D. A. (1992). Measurement of fibre pennation using ultrasound in
the human quadriceps in vivo. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. 65, 433-437.
, S., Lang, M. J. and Matsudaira, P. (2012). Maximal force characteristics of the Ca2+-
powered actuator of Vorticella convallaria. Biophys. J. 103, 860-867.
akibara, H., Kojima, H., Sakai, Y., Katayama, E. and Oiwa, K. (1999). Inner-arm dynein c of
Chlamydomonas flagella is a single-headed processive motor. Nature 400, 586-590.
ponse to reviewers Page 34
bongi, Y., Iko, Y., Tanabe, M., Omote, H., Iwamoto-Kihara, A., Ueda, I., Yanagida, T.,
Wada, Y. and Futai, M. (1999). Mechanical rotation of the c subunit oligomer in ATP
synthase (F0F1): Direct observation. Science 286, 1722-1724.
iaffino, S. and Reggiani, C. (1996). Molecular diversity of myofibrillar proteins: gene
regulation and functional significance. Physiol. Rev. 76, 371-423.
liwa, M. and Woehlke, G. (2003). Molecular motors. Nature 422, 759-765.
mitz, K. A., Holcomb-Wygle, D. L., Oberski, D. J. and Lindemann, C. B. (2000).
Measurement of the force produced by an intact bull sperm flagellum in isometric arrest and
estimation of the dynein stall force. Biophys. J. 79, 468-478.
nitzer, M. J., Visscher, K. and Block, S. M. (2000). Force production by single kinesin
motors. Nat. Cell Biol. 2, 718-723.
bacher, F., Tallis, J. A., and James, R. S. (2014) The cost of muscle power production: muscle
oxygen consumption per unit work increases at low temperatures in Xenopus laevis. J. Exp.
Biol. 217, 1940-1945
w, C. Y. and Ford, L. E. (1991). Shortening velocity and power output of skinned muscle
fibers from mammals having a 25,000-fold range of body mass. J. Gen. Physiol. 97, 541-
560.
ton, A. W. and Gersten, J. W. (1967). Isometric tension differences in fibers of red and white
muscles. Science 157, 199.
ton, A. W. (1967). Isometric tension of glycerinated muscle fibers following adrenalectomy.
Am. J. Physiol. 212, 313-316.
mamoto, Y., Kono, F., Suzuki, M. and Ishiwata, S. (2007) Nonlinear force-length relationship
in the ADP-induced contraction of skeletal myofibrils. Biophysical J., 93, 4330–4341.
ngyoji, C., Higuchi, H., Yoshimura, M., Katayama, E. and Yanagida, T. (1998). Dynein arms
are oscillating force generators. Nature (Lond.) 393, 711-714.
gel, S. (1956) Nonparametric statistics for the behavioral sciences. New York, McGraw-Hill.
a, Y., Hotta, H., Homma, M. and Ishijima, A. (2003). Torque–speed relationship of the Na+-
driven flagellar motor of Vibrio alginolyticus. J. Mol. Biol. 327, 1043-1051.
hle, R., Krüger, M. and Pfitzer, G. (2002a) Force kinetics and individual sarcomere dynamics
in cardiac myofibrils after rapid Ca2+ changes. Biophysical J., 83, 2152–2161.
ponse to reviewers Page 35
hle, R., Krüger, M., Scherer, P., Brixius, K., Schwinger, R.H.G. and Pfitzer, G. (2002b)
Isometric force kinetics upon rapid activation and relaxation of mouse, guinea pig and
human heart muscle studied on the subcellular myofibrillar level. Basic Res. Cardiol. 97;
Suppl. 1, I/127 – I/135.
hle, R, Solzin, J., Iorga, B., Gomez, D., Blaudeck, N. and Pfitzer, G. (2006) Mechanical
properties of sarcomeres during cardiac myofibrillar relaxation: stretch-induced cross-bridge
detachment contributes to early diastolic filling. J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil., 27, 423–434.
nen, G. J. M., Blangé, T. and Schnerr, M. C. (1978) Tension responses of frog sartorius
muscle to quick ramp-shaped shortenings and some effects of metabolic inhibition. Pflügers
Arch. 376, 97-104.
kes, D. R. and Josephson, R. K. (1994). Contractile properties of a high-frequency muscle
from a crustacean. II. Contraction kinetics. J. Exp. Biol. 187, 275-293.
boda, K. and Block, S. M. (1994). Force and velocity measured for single kinesin molecules.
Cell 77, 773-784.
eeney, H. L., Kushmerick, M. J., Mabuchi, K., Sréter, F. A. and Gergely, J. (1988). Myosin
alkali light chain and heavy chain variations correlate with altered shortening velocity of
isolated skeletal muscle fibers. J. Biol. Chem. 263, 9034-9039.
agi, Y., Homsher, E. E., Goldman, Y. E. and Shuman, H. (2006). Force generation in single
conventional actomyosin complexes under high dynamic load. Biophys. J. 90, 1295-1307.
eyasu, T. (1992). Unloaded shortening after a quick release of a contracting, single fibre
from crayfish slow muscle. J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 13, 619-629.
lor, G. M. (2000). Maximum force production: why are crabs so strong? Proc. R. Soc. Lond.
B. 267, 1475-1480.
ley, I. A., Denoth, J., Stüssi, E., Pfitzer, G. and Stehle, R. (2006) Half-sarcomere dynamics in
myofibrils during activation and relaxation studied by tracking fluorescent markers.
Biophysical J., 90, 514–530.
i, C., Colomo, F., Nencini, S., Piroddi, N. and Poggesi, C. (2000). The effect of inorganic
phosphate on force generation in single myofibrils from rabbit skeletal muscle. Biophys. J.
78, 3081-3092.
ponse to reviewers Page 36
rpe, S. K. S., Li, Y., Crompton, R. H. and Alexander, R. M. (1998). Stresses in human leg
muscles in running and jumping determined by force plate analysis and from published
magnetic resonance images. J. Exp. Biol. 201, 63-70.
a, S., Watanabe, T. M., Yamaguchi-Okimoto, L., Toyoshima, Y. Y., and Higuchi, H. (2006).
Overlapping hand-over-hand mechanism of single molecular motility of cytoplasmic dynein.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103, 5741-5745.
hami, A., Jericho, M. H., Boyd, J. M. and Beveridge, T. J. (2006). Nanoscale characterization
and determination of adhesion forces of Pseudomonas aeruginosa pili by using atomic force
microscopy. J. Bacteriol. 188, 370-377.
turyan, A.K., Bershitsky, S.Y., Koubassova, N.A., Fernandez, M., Narayanan, T. and
Ferenczi, M.A. (2011) The fraction of myosin motors that participate in isometric contraction
of rabbit muscle fibers at near-physiological temperature. Biophys. J. 101, 404-410.
dhyaya, A., Baraban, M., Wong, J., Matsudaira, P., van Oudenaarden, A. and Mahadevan, L.
(2008). Power-limited contraction dynamics of Vorticella convallaria: an ultrafast biological
spring. Biophys. J. 93, 265-272.
scher, K., Schnitzer, M. J. and Block, S. M. (1999). Single kinesin molecules studied with a
molecular force clamp. Nature 400, 184-189.
keling, J. M. and Johnston, I. A. (1998). Muscle power output limits fast-start performance in
fish. J. Exp. Biol. 201, 1505-1526.
ng, M. D., Schnitzer, M. J., Yin, H., Landick, R., Gelles, J. and Block, S. M. (1998). Force
and velocity measured for single molecules of RNA polymerase. Science 282, 902-907.
ng, Q., Newhard, C. S., Ramanath, S., Sheppard, D. and Swank, D. M. (2014) An embryonic
myosin converter domain influences Drosophila indirect flight muscle stretch activation,
power generation and flight. J. Exp. Biol., 217, 290-298.
st, T. G., Toepfer, C. N. Woledge, R. C., Curtin, N. A., Rowlerson, A., Kalakoutis, M.,
Hudson, P. and Wilson, A. M. (2013) Power output of skinned skeletal muscle fibres from
the cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus). J. Exp. Biol., 216, 2974-2982.
liamson, M. R., Dial, K. P. and Biewener, A. A. (2001). Pectoralis muscle performance
during ascending and slow level flight in mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). J. Exp. Biol. 204,
495-507.
ponse to reviewers Page 37
uda, R., Noji, H., Kinosita, K., Jr. and Yoshida, M. (1998). F1-ATPase is a highly efficient
molecular motor that rotates with discrete 120° steps. Cell 93, 1117–1124.
hida, M., Muneyuki, E. and Hisabori, T. (2001) ATP synthase – a marvelous rotary engine of
the cell. Nature Rev. 2, 669-677.
ponse to reviewers Page 38
URES
. 1. Log-log plot of specific tension vs. cell or body mass.
Locomotors shown as points (n = 294) and non-locomotors as circles (n = 55). Regression
of all log10 f vs. log10 M (solid red line, slope -5 x 10-4 not significantly different from zero,
0.90). Regression line of locomotors indistinguishable from red line, not shown (slope
x 10-3 not significantly different from zero, P = 0.24). Vertical dotted line: mass of cells on
left, of multicellular organisms on the right. Motor types: RN, RNA polymerase (n = 1); DC,
plasmic dynein (4); DA, axonemal dynein (4); KI, kinesin (7); MY, myosin (11); SP,
smoneme (3); PI, pili (6); FA, F0/F1 ATPase (2); FL, flagellum (4); MF, myofibril (16); FI,
scular fibre (97); MU, muscle in vitro (89); MV, muscle in vivo (105).
Motor types: same abbreviations and numbers as in A, except M1, single molecule (n = 27)
M2, molecular assembly (15). Symbols and colours of points as in A. Points belonging to the
e motor type located within the convex polygons shown. Regression lines of molecular
ors (M1, M2 and MF, blue line on the left, slope -0.03 not significantly different from zero,
0.17) and non-molecular motors (FI, MU, MV, red line on the right, slope 7 x 10-3 not
ificantly different from zero, P = 0.47). Horizontal dotted blue line is mean log10 f
a) = 2.2. Vertical dotted blue line as in A.
Taxonomic groups: Ba, bacteria (n = 13); Pr, protozoa (4); Al, algae (1); Fu, fungi (1); Ec,
inoderms (1); Ar, Arachnids, (1); In, insects (19); Cr, crustaceans (19); Mo, molluscs (5); Fi,
(29); Am, amphibian (31); Re, reptiles (5); Bi, birds (18); Ma, mammals (202). On the left
, polygons enclose motors from single cells (black) and from multicellular organisms (grey).
izontal and vertical dotted lines as in B.
Motor functions: non-locomotory (n = 55), swimming (53), flying (25), terrestrial (216).
ir respective regression lines are shown; their slopes s are significantly different from zero
n-loc, s = 0.02, P = 0.02; Fly, s = 0.1, P = 0.05; Terr, s = –0.02, P < 10–3) except Swim
8 x 10-4, P = 0.93).
ll panels the scale on the y-axis is 1.5 times larger than on the x-axis.
ponse to reviewers Page 39
. 2. Distributions of specific tensions f.
Empirical cumulated distribution function (CDF) of). All f values withare shown along the x-
as stepwise increments, giving a complete and undistorted view of the original data.
pirical CDF is fitted to a lognormal distribution of mean µ and s.d. s (dotted black),); fit is
cted at level 5% (P = 0.01).
Empirical CDF of f < 350 kPa (solid black) with fitted normal distribution withof mean µ and
s in kPa (dotted black), not rejected at level 5% (P = 0.33).
Empirical CDFs of f for molecular motors (blue, fitted lognormal not rejected) and non-
ecular motors (red, fitted lognormal rejected); the two distributions are not significantly
erent (P = 0.40).
Empirical CDFs (solid) and fitted normal CDFs (dotted) for molecular (blue) and non-
ecular (red) motors with f < 350 kPa; µ and s in kPa; the two distributions are not
ificantly different (P = 0.20).
Same as C for non-locomotors (blue) and locomotors (red); the two distributions are not
ificantly different (P = 0.21).
Same as D for non-locomotors (blue) and locomotors (red) fitted to Gaussian; µ and s in kPa;
two distributions are significantly different (P = 0.03).
comparisons based on Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests.
ponse to reviewers Page 40
. 32. Boxplots of specific tensions per motor type (n = 349). The boxes extend from the
er quartile to the upper quartile values with the medians (red line) in between. The whiskers
nd to the most extreme data values within 1.5 x× IQR. Outliers (red crosses) are tensions
ond the end of the upper whiskers. Abbreviations and number of values per type as defined in
1. Anova (Motor types with n < 5 removed: RN, RNA polymerase (n = 1); DC, cytoplasmic
ein (4); DA, axonemal dynein (4); KI, kinesin (7); MY, myosin (11); SP, spasmoneme (3); PI,
(6); FA and, F0/F1 ATPase (2); FL): PI <U+2260> (KI, MY, , flagellum (4); MF, myofibril (16); FI,
scular fibre (97); MU, muscle in vitro (89); MV) and FI <U+2260> MV. Pili PI are significantly
erent from all other motor types., muscle in vivo (105).
va and multiple comparison of means (Supplementary Tables S1, motor types with n < 5
oved: RN, DC, DA, SP, FA and FL): PI <U+2260> (KI, MY, MF, FI, MU, MV), FI <U+2260> MV and MU <U+2260>
. Pili PI are significantly different from all other motor types.
ponse to reviewers Page 41
. 43. Boxplots of specific tensions of all motors except pili (n = 343). Pili were excluded
m molecular assemblies M2, bacteria Ba and terrestrial motors Terr.
Per motor type. Abbreviations and number of values per class as defined in Fig. 1B2, except
, single molecule (n = 27) and M2, molecular assembly (n = 9). Anova: and multiple
parison of means (Supplementary Tables S2): MV <U+2260> (M1, FI, MU). Among the 11 MV
iers, 9 are claw muscles and 2 are jump muscles.
Same as A with non-locomotors (Non-loc, n = 55) as a separate class. Anova:Anova and
tiple comparison of means (Supplementary Tables S3): Non-loc <U+2260> (M1, FI) and FI <U+2260> MV.
Per taxonomic groups. (C) Taxonomic groups: Ba, bacteria (n = 7); Pr, protozoa (4); Al,
e (1); Fu, fungi (1); Ec, echinoderms (1); Ar, Arachnids, (1); In, insects (19); Cr, crustaceans
); Mo, molluscs (5); Fi, fish (29); Am, amphibian (31); Re, reptiles (5); Bi, birds (18); Ma,
mmals (202). Groups with n < 5 (Protozoa, Algae, Fungi, Echinoderms, Arachnids) were
oved (remaining data: n = 335); abbreviations (with only two first letters kept) and number of
ues per class as given in Fig. 1C, except for bacteria (n = 7). Anova:Anova and multiple
parison of means (Supplementary Tables S4): Crustaceans are significantly different from all
er groups.
Same as C for locomotors (n = 275) with non-locomotors (n = 48) as a separate class. Groups
h n < 5 were removed (same as in C, plus Bacteria and Molluscs). Insects (n = 17),
staceans (5), Fish (28), Amphibians (25), Reptiles (5), Birds (17), Mammals (178). Anova:
multiple comparison of means (Supplementary Tables S5): Non-loc <U+2260> (Fi, Bi) and Am <U+2260>
ish, Bird, Mamm).
Per motor function.: non-locomotory (n = 55), swimming (53), flying (25), terrestrial (210).
reviations and number of values per class as given in Fig. 1D, except for Terr (n = 210).
va:Anova and multiple comparison of means (Supplementary Tables S6): Non-loc <U+2260> (Swim,
r, Fly) and Fly <U+2260> Terr.
ponse to reviewers Page 42
. 4. Log-log plot of specific tension vs. cell or body mass.
Locomotors shown as points (n = 294) and non-locomotors as circles (n = 55). Regression
of all log10 f vs. log10 M (solid red line, slope -5 × 10-4 not significantly different from zero,
0.90). Regression line of locomotors (slope -6 × 10-3 not significantly different from zero,
0.24) indistinguishable from red line, not shown (see Supplementary Table S7). Vertical
ed line: mass of cells on the left, of multicellular organisms on the right. Motor types:
reviations and number of values per type as defined in Fig. 2.
Motor types: same abbreviations and numbers as in A, except M1, single molecule (n = 27)
M2, molecular assembly (15 with pili). Symbols and colours of points as in A. Points
onging to the same motor type located within the convex polygons shown. Regression lines of
ecular motors (M1, M2 and MF, blue line on the left, slope -0.03 not significantly different
m zero, P = 0.17) and non-molecular motors (FI, MU, MV, red line on the right, slope 7 × 10-3
significantly different from zero, P = 0.47). For these and other regressions on motor types,
Supplementary Tables S7-S9. Horizontal dotted blue line is mean log10 f (kPa) = 2.2. Vertical
ed blue line as in A.
Taxonomic groups: abbreviations and number of values per class as given in Fig. 3C, except
bacteria (n = 13 with pili). On the left side, polygons enclose motors from single cells (black)
from multicellular organisms (grey). For regressions on taxonomic groups, see
plementary Tables S10 and S11. Horizontal and vertical dotted lines as in B.
Motor functions: non-locomotory (n = 55), swimming (53), flying (25), terrestrial (216 with
). Their respective regression lines are shown; their slopes s are significantly different from
(Non-loc, s = 0.02, P = 0.02; Fly, s = 0.1, P = 0.05; Terr, s = –0.02, P < 10–3) except Swim
8 × 10-4, P = 0.93), see Supplementary Table S12.
ll panels the scale on the y-axis is 1.5 times larger than on the x-axis.
ponse to reviewers Page 43
BLES
change with respect to R1 version]
ponse to reviewers Page 44
pendix C
preciate the authors’ thorough response to my comments and I find the manuscript much improved.
ll have considerable concerns about the mass measurements used. However, minimizing the scaling
ument in the paper, adding detail about how masses were determined and showing that there are
, small effects of mass within “local” groups does alleviate my main concerns.
preciate that determination of mass is difficult and that the authors have to use some obtainable
e. However, I think it should be better acknowledged that even though the method used represents
best available, it has a severe limitation i.e. a different mass would be used for a myosin molecule
a muscle fiber from the same organism. This will allow the reader to better evaluate this section for
mselves.
added detail about how myosin molecular cross sections were determined to incorporate only the
d is very helpful. However, it may be better to move some of this information to the methods to
ure that the reader feels that suitable measurements are being taken.
description of how hydrogen bonds may dictate the specific tension of molecules is also very
pful. However, it may be better to move some of this to the introduction as it provides a currently
ing rationale for the study.
re is considerable information given in tables. As much of this details the source of specific tension
es, it may be considered a more raw form of data and therefore would potentially be better
uded in the supplemental materials rather than the main body of the paper.
Appendix D
Dear Editor,
Thank you for having informed us that our article has been accepted for publication in RSOS.
Response to referee. Dr Monica Daley mentioned that the reviewer’s comments “do not
impact the scientific soundness of the work or the interpretation of the main findings, so I will
leave it to the authors’ judgement whether or not to make further revisions to the manuscript
in response to these suggestions.” We appreciate this decision. We have taken into account
the first two referee’s comments but not the last two:
[1] I appreciate that determination of mass is difficult and that the authors have to use some
obtainable value. However, I think it should be better acknowledged that even though the
method used represents the best available, it has a severe limitation i.e. a different mass
would be used for a myosin molecule and a muscle fiber from the same organism. This will
allow the reader to better evaluate this section for themselves.
Re: We have added the sentence: “Note that as a consequence of these choices a different
mass was used for a myosin molecule (molecular motor) and a muscle fibre (non-molecular
motor) from the same organism.” (lines 197-199).
[2] The added detail about how myosin molecular cross sections were determined to
incorporate only the head is very helpful. However, it may be better to move some of this
information to the methods to ensure that the reader feels that suitable measurements are
being taken.
Re: We have added the sentence: “For myosin A was estimated from the head of the
molecule.” (lines 163-164).
[3] The description of how hydrogen bonds may dictate the specific tension of molecules is
also very helpful. However, it may be better to move some of this to the introduction as it
provides a currently lacking rationale for the study.
Re: We have not followed this suggestion because we believe that it does not fit well in the
Introduction.
[4] There is considerable information given in tables. As much of this details the source of
specific tension values, it may be considered a more raw form of data and therefore would
potentially be better included in the supplemental materials rather than the main body of the
paper.
Re: We have considered this possibility at an early stage but we do not think it is
appropriate. In particular the many authors cited would not be referenced in the data bases.
Data accessibility. All supporting data are made available in Tables 1 to 4.
Sincerely yours,
JPR and NMV
Society Open
