Detection dog efficacy for collecting faecal samples from
the critically endangered Cross River gorilla (Gorilla gorilla
diehli) for genetic censusing
Mimi Arandjelovic, Richard A. Bergl, Romanus Ikfuingei, Christopher Jameson, Megan
Parker and Linda Vigilant
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140423.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140423
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 January 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140423.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper compares use of dog to humans for population surveys of the Cross River gorillas.
Dog teams were in the field for just two weeks and collected only “fresh” samples. Compared to
human teams, dog teams found more unique individuals, more samples further away from nests,
detected far more older samples, had fewer recaptures and closer population estimates, albeit
with higher CVs. The authors conclude that dogs outperformed humans but that the expense of
bringing dogs from the US reduces the applicability of the method. They recommend local dogs
and handlers.
While the methods employed were reasonable, several factors might have improved the study
and changed their conclusions re: the utility/expense of using dogs.
Two weeks is too short for a study of this nature. While increasing sampling time would have
increased cost, it would not have done so proportionately as transport and set-up costs would be
the same regardless of how much time the dogs spent in the field. The authors also raised
concern of having to modify their study design to suit the dogs. A better approach might have
been to recognize that dog sampling and human sampling are different and to adopt a design for
the dog teams that is optimally suited for them. This is especially the case given the authors’
recognition that the human sampling was more biased.
The constraint of not including “old” fecal samples likely added to the study’s cost and error
rates. The authors do not specify how old is an old fecal sample, nor do they mention how they
determined that a sample was old. Samples in the tropics can quickly dry out, depending on
conditions. They also don’t last very long due to consumption by others species (e.g., insects).
Thus, it is quite possible that older samples were not that old and may have amplified adequately
for DNA. That being the case, including all samples detected by dogs could have provided a far
more reliable population estimate in the time allotted with little or no closure violations. The
dogs located 300 old samples, far more than did human teams. Most likely, very old samples
would not have amplified, naturally removing them from the estimates. Thus, it would have been
better to have the lab do the filtering, not the observer in the field. The latter is far less reliable.
While it would obviously be cheaper to use local dogs, this statement assumes that the
researchers can find local dogs with adequate “ball” drive to perform comparably in the field.
Insufficient attention to dog selection is the single-biggest factor causing detection dog studies to
fail. Finding a suitable detection dog in West Africa may not be possible given how hard it is to
find dogs with adequate play drive in the US. Dogs are treated very differently in West Africa
and rarely selected for their playfulness. An alternative option is to purchase suitable dogs in the
US or Europe and to house them permanently in West Africa, although susceptibility to disease
with more extended stays could prove problematic.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Kate Abernethy)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There does not seem to be any supplementary material. The authors present most of their data in
the paper, however actual genotypes of individuals are not presented, and no access information
is presented. I assume this should be rectified to conform to RS policies?
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors present a well written paper, presenting interesting results and advancing a key
methodology for conservation.
However, some small omissions in the presented methods underline the key message of the
paper, which is to compare human and dog efficiency and overall success. It is clear that the
missing information is available and the minor revisions below are suggested to improve the
logic of your comparison and make it easier for the reader to follow.
Abstract – line 11/12, “…less bias than”
nothing else to comment
Introduction – well balanced presentation of the study – no further comment
Methods
Paragraph on human directed surveys (line 121 +). Please add for clarity some mention of how
human survey paths were logged (presumably by Garmin CX also?), and how feces found on
nest sites or trails were logged for the comparison you made.
Also note (control for if possible) the weather/seasonal conditions in the previous human search
months that were compared to the 2012 dog searches, as differing field conditions will also affect
success rates, regardless of dog or human teams.
Why were human searches not oriented on a grid pattern like the dogs? Or conversely, why did
the dogs not follow the same search strategy as the humans? This seems to introduce a possible
fundamental difference in success, which is attributable to search pattern, not searcher? Your
would improve the analysis by clarifying how this methodological difference may affect your
results, and refer to this in interpretation of differences in the two search strategy success rates.
4
Results – it seems surprising that the original search protocol was suggested, given its
impossibility to implement in the field – new sampling procedures should be discussed in the
discussion
• Line 267 – for clarity use either ‘dog teams’ or the acronym ‘WDC teams’ throughout,
rather than mixing the label.
• Somewhere around line 270 you should state the success (numbers of fresh and old
samples) found by the human directed teams, in the same manner you state for the dog teams.
This would be appropriate before entering into the comparisons of success rates. I assume it is 33
fresh from the calculations presented in line 279, but that is not stated and the numbers of old
samples found by human teams not stated at all.
• Line 270-276. In the methods (line 121”….comparison to dog teams”.) you state that you
will compare success rates feces/team day for the Dec 2011 Kagwene surveys and the jan 2012
Mone surveys with previous data. I can infer from the text that the fresh feces human team
success at Kagwene is 33 in 17 days (1.94/day), so better than the contemporary Kagwene dog
team if there was only one human team: without a clear presentation of the human team results,
your comparative success rates are hard to see. This affects also the statement in the discussion
(line 418) about comparative performances. Can you revise the presentation of the results to
clarify the 2011 comparative success of the 2 methods, and (if possible) divide the comparison
with earlier human team data into figures for each site.
• In the section ‘Grouping inferences’ (Line 302 +) it would be useful to comment (and
revise methods also) on the age estimation of the individuals (if this was done in the field, and if
not, why not, as in the introduction it is postulated that dog teams may be better at finding
juvenile feces than humans. If the male gorillas in question are not adult, there is less surprise in
them not being father-son pair, but brothers……however, this may mean that the SB was not
captured by the methods? Inclusion of a discussion of age would also improve the paragraph in
the Discussion line 403+ on this point.
Discussion
line 418, the methods and results need clarified to support this statement, as at present the human
team success rate and effort are not presented in the text.
Please also check your presentation of all supporting data, to conform with Royal Society open
policies.
Dr. Katharine Abernethy, African Forest Ecology Group, University of Stirling.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140423)
22-Dec-2014
Dear Professor Arandjelovic
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140423 entitled
"DETECTION DOGS EFFICACY FOR COLLECTING FECAL SAMPLES FROM THE
CRITICALLY ENDANGERED CROSS RIVER GORILLA (Gorilla gorilla diehli) FOR GENETIC
CENSUSING" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
5
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 14-Jan-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
6
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
