Discovery of novel representatives of bilaterian
neuropeptide families and reconstruction of neuropeptide
precursor evolution in ophiuroid echinoderms
Meet Zandawala, Ismail Moghul, Luis Alfonso Yañez Guerra, Jérôme Delroisse, Nikara
Abylkassimova, Andrew F. Hugall, Timothy D. O’Hara and Maurice R. Elphick
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170129.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170129
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 July 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0129.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Christian Wegener)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
This is a comprehensive and thorough study for which the authors should be congratulated.
There is a lot of new insight to be gained from this work in terms of neuropeptide evolution, e.g.
it is exciting to see possible EH orthologs in a deuterostome.
The manuscript is written in a somewhat lengthier review-like style when it comes to
background information on the different peptide families. Yet, this is very helpful to understand
and interpret the data and seems to be compatible with Open Biology guidelines, so it should be
kept. In general, I find the manuscript very well written, and data well presented. I have only few
and quite minor comments:
line 108-127 and line 251-260: These two paragraphs appear redundant. I suggest to start the
results with this information, and skip the repetition.
line 119 and Fig. 5: I have difficulties to see the sequence similarities of the echinoderm PDFs with
say insect PDFs. The given citation [8] - to my opinion- also is not convincingly showing sequence
"homologies". Could you give more evidence here why you think these peptides are orthologs of
arthropod PDF peptides.
line 142: EH is not only involved in insect ecdysis, but also (at least) in crustacean ecdysis. Please
rephrase as it may help to understand why EH was not found outside of the arthropods (line 147-
148). Of course, the question it what is EH doing in ophiuroids?
line 145: this view is outdated - EH seems to be essential, please see: Krüger, E., Mena, W., Lahr,
E.C., Johnson, E.C., Ewer, J., 2015. Genetic analysis of Eclosion hormone action during Drosophila
larval ecdysis. Development 142, 4279–4287. doi:10.1242/dev.126995
line 216: your data are not the first to show that NPF/NPY peptides with a C-terminal RYa motif
occur outside the vertebrates. For example, NPF in Nasonia and the honey bee as well as in
Bombyx and Manduca moths have the RYamide ending (reviewed in Nässel, D.R., Wegener, C.,
2011. A comparative review of short and long neuropeptide F signaling in invertebrates: Any
similarities to vertebrate neuropeptide Y signaling? Peptides 32, 1335–1355.) Please correct.
line 236: ".. NUCBs in invertebrates had not been reported, in spite of the potential therapoeutic
application..." I don't understand the logic here - a therapy for snails and bugs?
line 519: ..neuromedin U/CAPA. I guess the common view is that the hugin/PBAN pyrokinins
are the NMU homologs. Are PRXamides (pyrokinins FXPRLa and CAPA peptides) absent from
echinoderms? Please comment and explain.
line 612: typo "neropeptide"
3
line 658: please give the URL for the ruby script.
Discussion: I would appreciate - if sensible- to include a short comment which neuropeptides
were NOT detected though you would have expected them based on the information available on
other echinoderms. How complete is your neuropeptidome prediction?
Fig2C, legend: I find it very difficult to understand Fig 2C - what are OGC1-3 receptors? I guess
many readers will also not know hwat NPLP1-VQQ is, why are these receptors included? The
"legend" in the figure is hardly legible. Please provide all information necessary to understand
Fig2C in the legend.
data: I was unable to retrieve the GenBank entries (MF155236 etc...). Will they become available
upon acceptance?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
In this transcriptomic data-mining study the authors present the first comprehensive analysis of
the proneuropeptide complement of ophiuroids. They also give an overview of echinoderm
neuropeptides and analyse the evolution of neuropeptide copy number.
Ophiuroids represent one of the five classes of echinoderms. Although several transcriptomes
were already available, no study addressed neuropeptide evolution in this class.
4
Echinoderms and other under-studied groups of animals can provide very important insights
into the evolution of gene families. This is because the rate of gene losses and which genes are lost
varies across phyla, and a broad sampling helps to reconstruct gene history more accurately.
The authors have successfully used echinoderms in previous studies to clarify the history of
several important neuropeptide families. This work adds to this list and broadens our view of
proneuropeptide evolution in echinoderms and also across bilaterians.
The most significant finding is the identification of the first deuterostome eclosion hormone and
EH receptor homolog. This is unexpected and suggests that this family is an ancient bilaterian
family that was lost from many groups of animals.
I only have a few minor comments to the authors:
The authors may want to be more explicit about the phylogenetic co-occurrence of EH and its
receptor, maybe by adding a table listing the phyla where both receptor and peptide is
present/absent. The alignment by itself may not convince everybody, since Cys-rich seqs can give
spurious BLAST matches.
The authors show NUCB homologs in echinoderms and write that "Surprisingly, the
presence of NUCBs in invertebrates had not been reported". They also include Drosophila
sequence in the alignment. They should comment what is known about this protein or why was it
not identified as a NUCB before?
The authors should submit a fasta file as a supplementary file containing all predicted precursors
from the three species. This will facilitate future comparative work. If they could do it for all
echinoderms they analysed, that would even be nicer.
typo:
612 is that the sequences of neropeptide
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0129)
11-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Zandawala,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0129 entitled "Discovery of novel
representatives of bilaterian neuropeptide families and reconstruction of neuropeptide precursor
evolution in ophiuroid echinoderms" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open
Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions
to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise
your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
5
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
6
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0129.R1)
27-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Zandawala
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Discovery of novel representatives
of bilaterian neuropeptide families and reconstruction of neuropeptide precursor evolution in
ophiuroid echinoderms" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Open Biology
