Predicting virus emergence amidst evolutionary noise
Jemma L. Geoghegan and Edward C. Holmes
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170189.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170189
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 25 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0189.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
I tremendously enjoyed reading this article, which is beautifully written. I could not agree more
with the argument that prediction of viral emergence is inherently difficult (although I am an
optimistic and would not go as far as calling this a ‘futile’ exercise). I fully concur with the
authors that cataloguing viral diversity, as in the Global Virome Project, is overpromising our
forecasting ability.
I have only a few minor comments:
- The authors provide nice examples of emergence ‘failures’, whereby viruses that
seemingly have the required genetic makeup for successful transmission in a new host still fail to
cause large-scale outbreaks, presumably due to ecological issues (the poster child being Canine
Influenza Virus, CIV, here). There is however very little in this paper on the viruses that
successfully caused full blown epidemics (HIV, SARS, pandemic flu, and perhaps a few more
examples from non-human diseases systems). It would be useful to elaborate on these ‘success’
stories for contrast, summarize the processes of genetic adaptation (if any) and the permissive
ecological conditions present during the emergence phase.
- Using CIV as a case study, the authors highlight the importance of permissive ecological
factors, which they summarize as “host population size” in Fig 4. However, it is more complex
than sheer population size. As a case in point, the global canine population size is huge and
would likely be able to sustain CIV outbreaks if it were a more connected population. Further,
other factors beyond population structure could hinder viral emergence, including prior
immunity and age structure (an emergent virus may be immunologically related to other viruses
already encountered by a new host population, eg flu or enteroviruses). Perhaps a better
terminology for what the authors mean is ‘effective susceptible population’, which could
encompass population size and turn-over, contact networks and age structure, prior immunity,
and probably other factors. A discussion of these ecological factors would be useful somewhere
in the text.
- In thinking about the ‘fault-lines’ of disease emergence at the animal-human interface,
can the authors elaborate on the geographic regions where sampling should be prioritized?
Clearly, there has been much attention devoted to identifying hotspots of viral diversity and
regions associated with rapid ecological changes. This broadly aligns active animal-human
interfaces, where I think the authors would like to see increased sampling. However, these fault
lines fail to explain the emergence of the 2009 pandemic virus, MERS-CoV, or Zika virus. Do we
need more research on identifying these fault lines in a more quantitative way, and if so, could
sampling of viral diversity across species, and more behavioral/ecological data on species
diversity and contacts, help in any way? Or are we left with sampling already recognized
hotspots, which may help in only a fraction of viral emergence situations?
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0189)
12-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Holmes,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0189 entitled "Predicting virus
emergence amidst evolutionary noise" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open
Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions
to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise
your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170189)
See Appendices A & B.
label_version_2
RSOB-17-0189.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
5
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
The paper was nicely revised - no further comment.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0189.R1)
25-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Holmes
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Predicting virus emergence amidst
evolutionary noise" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
If applicable, please find the referee comments below. No further changes are recommended.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received,
we may publish the paper as it stands.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
6
As a conscientious publisher, Open Biology is keen to get your opinion on the publishing system
so we can adapt and make the process more author-friendly. In order to achieve this, we would
like to invite you to participate in a survey being conducted by Editage Insights by clicking on the
following link: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/author-perspectives-on-academic-
publishing-royal-society
This should take no more than 15 minutes and you will have the opportunity to enter a prize
draw. We hope these results will provide us with valuable insights we can use to improve our
service.
Appendix A
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I tremendously enjoyed reading this article, which is beautifully written. I could not agree
more with the argument that prediction of viral emergence is inherently difficult (although I
am an optimistic and would not go as far as calling this a ‘futile’ exercise). I fully concur with
the authors that cataloguing viral diversity, as in the Global Virome Project, is overpromising
our forecasting ability.
Response: We thank the reviewer for these positive comments.
I have only a few minor comments:
- The authors provide nice examples of emergence ‘failures’, whereby viruses that
seemingly have the required genetic makeup for successful transmission in a new host still
fail to cause large-scale outbreaks, presumably due to ecological issues (the poster child
being Canine Influenza Virus, CIV, here). There is however very little in this paper on the
viruses that successfully caused full blown epidemics (HIV, SARS, pandemic flu, and
perhaps a few more examples from non-human diseases systems). It would be useful to
elaborate on these ‘success’ stories for contrast, summarize the processes of genetic
adaptation (if any) and the permissive ecological conditions present during the emergence
phase.
Response: The reviewer makes a fair point. We have therefore revised the paper to include
some extra details on these virus ‘success stories’, focusing on HIV and HCV, and with a
number of additional references. We also note that most (if not all) endemic viral infections
likely have an animal reservoir, even though we have not identified that reservoir in most
cases (with HCV providing a good example). Hence, for most of the success stories we don’t
actually know what mutations have been involved in human (or non-human) adaptation. We
now make this point in the paper.
- Using CIV as a case study, the authors highlight the importance of permissive
ecological factors, which they summarize as “host population size” in Fig 4. However, it is
more complex than sheer population size. As a case in point, the global canine population
size is huge and would likely be able to sustain CIV outbreaks if it were a more connected
population. Further, other factors beyond population structure could hinder viral emergence,
including prior immunity and age structure (an emergent virus may be immunologically
related to other viruses already encountered by a new host population, eg flu or
enteroviruses). Perhaps a better terminology for what the authors mean is ‘effective
susceptible population’, which could encompass population size and turn-over, contact
networks and age structure, prior immunity, and probably other factors. A discussion of
these ecological factors would be useful somewhere in the text.
Response: We agree with the reviewer and have revised the paper accordingly. By ‘host
population size’ we were really thinking of a combination of host population size AND
density. We have now clarified this in the paper. However, the reviewer is clearly correct that
we need more nuance here and hope we have provided this in the revised version of the
paper. Indeed, we now explicitly mention prior immunity and age structure. We really like the
idea of ‘effective susceptible population size’ – sums it up nicely – and have therefore
revised Figure 4 and the associated text accordingly.
- In thinking about the ‘fault-lines’ of disease emergence at the animal-human
interface, can the authors elaborate on the geographic regions where sampling should be
prioritized? Clearly, there has been much attention devoted to identifying hotspots of viral
diversity and regions associated with rapid ecological changes. This broadly aligns active
animal-human interfaces, where I think the authors would like to see increased sampling.
However, these fault lines fail to explain the emergence of the 2009 pandemic virus, MERS-
CoV, or Zika virus. Do we need more research on identifying these fault lines in a more
quantitative way, and if so, could sampling of viral diversity across species, and more
behavioral/ecological data on species diversity and contacts, help in any way? Or are we left
with sampling already recognized hotspots, which may help in only a fraction of viral
emergence situations?
Response: This is a good question. It seems counter-productive to list precise geographic
locations given our general nervousness about predictions. However, we have now
suggested that existing serological data might be a good way of identifying those human
populations that are commonly exposed to animal pathogens and hence where sampling
might be most profitable.
Open Biology/Perspectives
Appendix B
Predicting virus emergence amidst evolutionary noise
Jemma L. Geoghegan1 and Edward C. Holmes2
1
Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia
2
Marie Bashir Institute for Infectious Diseases and Biosecurity, Charles Perkins Centre,
School of Life and Environmental Sciences and Sydney Medical School, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia
Author for correspondence:
Professor Edward C Holmes,
Marie Bashir Institute for Infectious Diseases and Biosecurity, Charles Perkins Centre,
School of Life and Environmental Sciences and Sydney Medical School,
The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
Email: edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
1
Open Biology/Perspectives
The study of virus disease emergence, whether it can be predicted and how it might be
prevented, has become a major research topic in biomedicine. HereinHere we show that
efforts to actively predict disease emergence commonly conflate fundamentally different
evolutionary and epidemiological timescales, and are likely to fail because of the
enormous number of unsampled viruses that could conceivably emerge in humans.
Although we know much about the patterns and processes of virus evolution on
evolutionary timescales as depicted in family-scale phylogenetic trees, these data have
little predictive power to reveal the short-term microevolutionary processes that
underpin cross-species transmission and emergence. Truly understanding disease
emergence therefore requires a new mechanistic and integrated view of the factors that
allow or prevent viruses to spreadspreading in host populationsnovel hosts. We present
such a view, suggesting that both ecological and genetic aspects of virus emergence can
be placed within a simple population genetic framework, which in turn highlights the
importance of host population size and density in determining whether emergence will
be successful. Despite this framework, we conclude that a more practical solution to
preventing and containing the successful emergence of new diseases entails ongoing
virological surveillance at the human-animal interface and regions of ecological
disturbance.
Keywords
Emergence; Evolution; Phylogeny; Virus; Spill-over; Virosphere
2
Open Biology/Perspectives
‘Prediction is very difficult, especially about the future’
Niels Bohr
1. Introduction
Emerging infectious diseases have the potential to wreak havoc on agricultural industries
and native flora and fauna, and can pose a significant challenge to the health and
economic status of both developed and developing countries. The broad-scale drivers of
the apparent increase in the number of emerging diseases are well documented,
involving such factors as climate change, environmental disruption, an increasingly
centralised agricultural system, rapid global transportation, as well as high densities of
humans, animals and crops. Combined, these factors have created new opportunities for
viruses and other pathogens to change their host range and cause epidemic disease. In
humans, this confluence of factors has led to the emergence of a number of high-profile
viral infections over the last 40 years, including the ongoing global epidemic of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), pandemic influenza A viruses such as H1N1/09, SARS
coronavirus (CoV), MERS-CoV, and the more recent outbreaks of Ebola virus in West
Africa and Zika virus throughout the Americas.
Importantly, the study of disease emergence has moved from making lists of emerging
diseases and the proximate ecological factors responsible for their appearance (e.g. see
1),(e.g. see 1), to establishing more rigorous quantitative frameworks to explain how new
infections become established in populations (e.g. 2, 3, 4).(e.g. 2, 3, 4). In particular, there
is now a large body of literature devoted to understanding the determinants of disease
emergence, with a strong focus on emerging viruses. This work has the implicit and
commendable goal of trying to reveal the overarching rules of disease emergence which,
3
Open Biology/Perspectives
in turn, might lead to predictions of what virus might emerge next and where this may
occur (5-8).(5-8). Gaining this sort of predictive capability would have obvious and wide-
ranging benefits. In these approaches, the study of virus emergence is often synonymous
with the study of virus evolution, such that the more we understand about the patterns
and processes of evolutionary change, the more accurate any emergence prediction is
thought to be.
However, accurate predictions of disease emergence must be based on a correct and
rigorous understanding of how viruses jump between hosts and adapt to new
transmission cycles, including the timescale over which these processes occur. We show
here that a more meaningful understanding of virus emergence requires us to shift the
focus away from the broader processes of virus evolution and towards the short-term
factors that influence the probability of the successful establishment of a virus in a host
population. In other words, if the goal is to develop a meaningful predictive model of
disease emergence, there may be considerable value in tuning out the background
‘noise’ of virus evolution rather than building the model around long-term evolutionary
processes. More fundamentally, we will argue that a more practical approach to the
challenge of virus emergence will involve abandoning prediction in favour of genomic
surveillance at the ecological ‘fault-lines’ of emergence.
2. The Nature of Virus Emergence
The successful emergence of a virus in a new host will often entail a significant adaptive
challenge. Indeed, one of the most important observations in disease emergence is that
not all viruses that jump species boundaries successfully evolve onward transmission in
4
Open Biology/Perspectives
the new host. Rather, many such viruses appear as transient ‘spill-over’ infections that
soon die out, even in the absence of infection control. For example, despite repeated
spill-over events from birds to humans, H5N1 avian influenza virus has not been able to
evolve sustained human-to-human transmission (9).(9). Other viruses have been more
successful and resulted in significant outbreaks in new hosts. For example, Ebola virus
(EBOV) has caused several localised epidemics that have been largely restricted in their
spread by administrative boundaries and border closings (10).(10). Hence, although there
is evidence of the active adaptation of EBOV to human populationshumans during the
recent 2013-2016 outbreak in West Africa (11, 12), it is likely that(11, 12), the virus clearly
possesses the necessarybase-line virological traits needed to ensure its onward
transmission in the new host. Finally, some viruses have evolved to become endemic
human pathogens, involving the generation of well-established and long-standing chains
of transmission that do not require repeated spill-over events from an animal reservoir.
An obvious case in point is HIV, the agent of AIDS, although a wide variety of human
viruses fall into this class. Indeed, it is likely that most endemic virus infections in humans
ultimately resulted from cross-species transmission, although in the majority of cases the
exact animal reservoir species are unknown or unsampled. For example, although
hepaciviruses are being increasingly documented in animal populations, it is likely that
the true reservoir species for human hepatitis C virus has yet to be identified (13, 14).
These different virus-host associations, from spill-over to endemicity, highlight the two
central questions in the evolution of virus emergence: (i) why are only some viruses able
to successfully spread in a new host, and (ii) what barriers, both ecological and genetic,
prevent active host adaptation from taking place?
5
Open Biology/Perspectives
There has been a great deal of experimental research in a number of systems directed
toward identifying those specific viral genomic mutations responsible for successful host
adaptation (13).(15), although as noted above an important limitation is that there are
still relatively few cases in which the precise chain of evolutionary events from reservoir
to recipient species have been determined (16). As expected, many mutations that
promote successful host-adaptation are concerned with aspects of virus-receptor binding
(14), although changes in other traits, such as pH, are also of importance (15). However,
it is clear that virus genetics alone cannot explain the spectrum of disease emergence
types.(11, 12, 17), although changes in other traits, such as pH (18) and interactions with
host antiviral responses (19, 20), are also of importance. However, virus genetics alone
cannot explain why only some emerging viruses are successful. Indeed, even viruses that
appear to be well adapted to a specific host (i.e. that seemingly harbour all necessary
host-specific mutations) may fail to spread.
An informative example concerns the recent emergence of the A/H3N8 subtype of
canine influenza virus (CIV). Although this virus was first recorded in dogs in the USA in
the early 2000s, with horses acting as the reservoir host (16),(21), it has failed to become
established in the domestic dog population. Instead, CIV is largely confined to dog
shelters, where most dogs are infected soon after they arrive (17).(22). CIV clearly
possesses all the genetic characteristics necessary to spread in dogs, and its reproductive
number in dog shelters is always sufficient (i.e. R0 > 1) to allow its spread within these
confined spaces. However, CIV has failed to ignite a wider epidemic in dogs, likely
because contact heterogeneity in the domestic dog population is much greater than in
dog shelters such that there is an insufficient density of susceptible hosts for the
outbreak to take hold (17). This inhibition of virus emergence through a lack of
6
Open Biology/Perspectives
susceptibles is likely to be commonplace.(22). This inhibition of virus emergence through
a lack of susceptible hosts is likely to be commonplace. The general lesson to be learned
for exercises in prediction is that determining whether a virus can spread in a particular
host, for example following cell passage experiments or using animal models, does not
mean that it will in the real world unless epidemiological circumstances are permissive.
Virus emergence should therefore always be thought of as a combination of successful
genetics aligned with permissive ecology (4, 8, 18).(4, 8, 16).
3. Is Emergence Predictable?
Predicting emergence has become one of the highest stakes topics in the study of
infectious disease. The multi-host dynamics of virus emergence, from donorreservoir to
recipient hosts, requires us to consider the interplay of host ecology and virus genetics.
At the ecological level, emergence risk has been associated with such factors as climate
change, population demographics (19), geographic ‘hotspots’ of former emergence
locations (5), and host plasticity (20).(23), geographic ‘hotspots’ of former emergence
locations (5), and host plasticity (24). At the virus genetic level, there has been effort to
determine those virological factors that correlate with transmissibility within a specific
host (7) (see below).(7) (see below). Theoretical studies aimed at assessing the
predictability of emergence have strived to encompass the complexities of inter- and
intra-host evolutionary fitness dynamics (2, 21-23),(2, 25-27), where the within-host and
between-host fitness landscapes play a central role in determining the probability of
emergence (4, 21).(4, 25).
7
Open Biology/Perspectives
A central goal of research in this area has been to reveal the ‘rules’ that underpin disease
emergence, on the implicit assumption that predictive accuracy will follow. A more
ambitious scheme was established in 2016 in the guise of the Global Virome Project
(GVP). Through a global partnership the GVP aims to identify and characterize 99% of
zoonotic viruses with epidemic potential to better predict, prevent and respond to future
viral threats (24).(28). To achieve these aims, the GVP will perform large-scale
metagenomic surveys of viruses in vertebrate populations. The underlying logic is that
knowing what viruses are present in nature provides substantive value in trying to
determine what will come next. The GVP is therefore the clarion call for studies in
predicting virus emergence.
Surveys of virus biodiversity have already revealed remarkable levels of genomic and
phylogenetic diversity (25, 26)(29, 30) and will undoubtedly increase our understanding
of the patterns and processes of virus evolution. However, we contend that they are
unlikely to be informative in predicting the next pandemic. Most obviously, the total
number of viruses on earth – the virosphere – is so large that it can never provide a
guided insight into what viruses may eventually emerge in humans. There are an
estimated 8.7 million eukaryotic species on earth (27), and it is possible that each could
carry in the order of approximately 100 virus species (with more than 200 documented in
humans). We can then very roughly estimate that there are in the order of 870
million(31). If we assume that each carries approximately 10 species-specific viruses
(more than 200 viruses have been documented in humans), then we can then very
roughly estimate that there are in the order of 87 million eukaryotic viruses perhaps
distinct enough to be considered different species. Currently, the International
Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) recognises 4,404 virus species in all hosts
8
Open Biology/Perspectives
(both eukaryotes and prokaryotes), which means that 99.999493799949379% of the
eukaryotic virosphere remains undiscovered or unclassified (Figure 1). Even if we reduce
the number of distinct virus species per host to only 10, 99.9949379% of virus species
remain unknown,), and these calculations ignore the huge numbers of bacteriophage.
The idea of ana virosphere so expansive is supported by the vast numbers of viruses
discovered by recent studies of viral biodiversity that have been stimulated by advances
in metagenomics, particularly the use of bulk RNA sequencing (25, 26, 28).(29, 30, 32).
Importantly, these metagenomics studies have considered virus diversity in terrestrial
species, whereas previous studies had a strong focus on aquatic environments and DNA
bacteriophage (29-31).(33-35). Most dramatically, a recent metagenomic analysis of nine
invertebrate phyla identified 1445 novel RNA viruses, as well as newly defined genera
and families (and possibly orders) (25).(29). Not only does this represent a major increase
in our knowledge of virus diversity, but that it came from a survey of only 220 species
from a small number of sampling locations in China hints at the true scale of the
virosphere.
Although vertebrates, particularly mammals, may carry a smaller number of viruses, the
number is still so very large as to make any detailed experimental follow-up of even the
vertebrate virosphere impractical, particularly as the rapid nature of RNA virus evolution
means that any individual virus species will harbour a wide diversity of ever-changing
variants. This impracticality is augmented when one considers our lack of knowledge of
whether this vast set of viruses can replicate in human cells, and even this trait will not
guarantee that a virus will be able to successfully transmit between hosts. In this context
it has been proposed that machine-learning may help in pandemic prediction, for
instance by using sequence data to predict which cell receptors a virus might utilize (32,
9
Open Biology/Perspectives
33).(36, 37). However, attaining knowledge of cell receptor compatibility in itself does not
enable accurate predictions of emergence, particularly as viruses with a diverse range of
receptors are able to infect humans. For example, it has long been known that influenza
viruses bind to sialic acid-containing molecules as receptors (34).(38). However, this
information has not improved prediction of influenza virus emergence and re-
emergence. More generally, machine learning requires very large amounts of data to
predict common events, whereas studies of disease emergence necessarily utilize data on
rare events to predict rare events.
Paradoxically, then, the more we sample animal populations, the less frequently virus
cross-species transmission to humans seems to occur. For example, when SARS
coronavirus (CoV) was revealed to have its origin in bats (35),(39), the total number of
known bat viruses was very small so that the likelihood that a bat virus might emerge in
humans correspondingly appeared to be relatively high. However, the total number of
known bat viruses has increased dramatically with better sampling (6, 36, 37),(6, 40, 41),
and bat-to-human zoonotic transmission now appears to be a rare event.
It is also important to recall that the most recent viruses to achieve epidemic spread in
humans – Ebola and Zika – were caused by known and well described human pathogens,
with the first descriptions of Zika virus going back to the 1940s (38).(42). Yet, our
previous knowledge of these pathogens was not indicative of their epidemic potential. It
may therefore be the case that the greatest pandemic threat in fact lies in those viruses
that re-emerge intermittently and whose onward success depends on the availability of a
large, density populated host population.in large and dense host populations. We
propose a theoretical framework to understand this possibility later.
10
Open Biology/Perspectives
Previous attempts to predict aspects of virus emergence have met with limited success.
There has been considerable interest in trying to predict thosethe geographic locations
where viruses may emerge in the future, based on identifying the locations where such
emergence events have occurred in the past: the so-called ‘hotspots’ of emergence (5). –
the so-called ‘hotspots’ of emergence (5). Although these may well represent localities
where sampling virus biodiversity will be profitable, it is difficult to turn such studies into
a viable index of predictability. For example, both Mexico and Saudi Arabia appear as
‘cold’ spots in these emergence maps, with relatively little evidence of past disease
emergence. Yet, since these hotspot maps were published, Mexico has witnessed the
emergence of H1N1/09 virus (in pig populations), while MERS coronavirus emerged in
Saudi Arabia in 2012, with dromedary camels unexpectedly acting as the reservoir host
(39).(43).
It has also been suggested that wildlife host species richness is an important predictor of
disease emergence (5).(5). Conversely, however, biodiversity has also been linked to a
decrease in disease risk through the ‘dilution effect’ (40-44).(44-48). This was first
developed as a framework to infer the dynamics of tick-borne Lyme disease and
describes the association between increasing species richness and reduced disease risk,
particularly when the most competent hosts were dominant in the community and
alternative hosts negatively influenced the dominant hosts as reservoirs (40, 45).(44, 49).
Although still debated, the dilution effect highlights the central role of host biodiversity
and ecology in shaping the epidemiology of disease-causing pathogens. Inevitably,
habitat destruction and ecosystem disturbance due to changes in land use will contribute
to the loss of biodiversity. The broader consequences of such losses for emerging human
pathogens are unknown and clearly merit further investigation (Figure 2).
11
Open Biology/Perspectives
Although cross-species virus transmission sits at the heart of virus emergence,
phylogenetic studies of the frequency with which different virus families are able to jump
species boundaries also offer little predictive power as all exhibit a strong tendency to
jump hosts (46).. Indeed, it now appears that the evolutionary history of most virus
families comprises a complex mix of cross-species transmission and virus-host co-
divergence, and that trying to disentangle the respective contributions of each process
will be challenging (46).(50). In addition, the greater diversity of hosts and their viruses
sampled, the more cases of species jumping we are likely to document (46).(50).
Importantly, these phylogenetic studies also demonstrate that virus-host associations,
including cross-transmission, may extend over many millions of years and not only in the
recent past as is assumed in studies of virus emergence. As a case in point, evolutionary
relationships within the Narna–Levi group of RNA viruses are compatible with virus-host
co-divergence since the a-proteobacteria became endosymbionts (25).As a case in point,
it is possible that the Narna–Levi group of RNA viruses have co-diverged with their hosts
since the a-proteobacteria became endosymbionts (29).
While other comparative analyses have revealed those virological factors that increase
the transmissibility of emerging viruses in humans (7),(7), these analyses also likely offer
little predictive power. These studies suggest that viruses with low host mortality, that
establish chronic infections, that are non-segmented, that do not possess an envelope,
and that are not transmitted by vectors have greater ‘emergibility’ in humans (7).(7).
Nonetheless, many viruses still fall into this class and a number of these traits are not
measurable until the virus has already established itself in a new host, diminishing the
predictive utility of such ‘viral traits’ analyses.
12
Open Biology/Perspectives
Given these uncertainties, and the fact that elements of the evolutionary
processesprocess that underpins emergence are inherently unpredictable, we suggest
that there is no simple algorithm that will enable an accurate prediction of what viruses
might emerge in the future. Accordingly, we suggest thatHence, it is necessary to lower
our expectations about disease emergence as a predictive science. In particular, although
metagenomics undoubtedly has major implications for our understanding of virus
evolution, it also likely undermines biodiversity-based attempts to predict the virus
source of the next major disease pandemic (6).(6). There are clearly so many viruses in
nature that trying to determine which will ultimately appear in a new host from diversity
sampling alone is almost certainly futile.
Predictions also sit uneasily with most aspects of evolutionary biology. Even relatively
simple traits like virulence, which have generated considerable evolutionary theory, have
proven difficult to predict because of myriad unknown forces that shape their
evolutionary trajectory (47).(51). Although there has been some success in using
phylogenetic approaches to predict the short-term evolution of human influenza virus
(48),(52), the nature of the central selective processes shaping virus evolution (i.e.
antigenic drift) is well known and to some extent quantifiable over the timescale studied.
This is demonstrably not the case when considering unknown emerging viruses.
4. The conflation of epidemiological and evolutionary timescales
At face value it seems obvious that evolutionary ideas and analyses will help predict the
emergence threat posed by different viruses. However, a major limitation is that
evolutionary processes, particularly those reliant on phylogenetic or other comparative
13
Open Biology/Perspectives
analyses, often occur on a markedly different timescale than the epidemiological
processes relevant to pandemic prediction. Indeed, one of the most important
conclusions of recent work in the study of RNA virus evolution is that the timescale over
which these viruses have evolved, including cross-species transmission events, is likely far
longer than previously imagined. This realisation comes from both phylogenetic studies
of virus biodiversity and branching patterns (46, 49),(50, 53), particularly the match
between parts of the virus and host trees, and the analyses of endogenous virus
elements that act as genomic fossils (50).(54). Hence, it is likely that many of the viral
families that infect vertebrates have done so for many millions of years, and have
experienced continual cross-species transmission since this time.
Although central to understanding evolutionary processes, these timescales are irrelevant
for predicting the next pandemic within an epidemiological timescale (i.e. 1-10 years).
The same caveat applies to studies that have used the taxonomic span covered by viral
families as a way of determining which have the greatest propensity to jump hosts
(6).(6). These taxonomic ranges may have taken millions of years to generate and not the
scale of years necessary for effective pandemic prediction. Evolutionary and
epidemiological timescales should not simply be assumed to be equivalent. Although
phylogenies can be used to accurately describe both macro- and micro-evolution, and
superficially appear similar, the trees at these two scales are produced by markedly
different evolutionary processes (Figure 3). As it is clear that the pace of human
ecological (anthropogenic) change generally occurs more rapidly than successful virus
host-jumping adaptationsdepicted in a phylogenetic tree, from a public health point of
view we would do better to monitor ongoing environmental disturbance by humans than
quantify long-term aspects of virus evolution.
14
Open Biology/Perspectives
An informative example of this fundamental disconnect between evolutionary and
epidemiological timescales is provided by the hepadnaviruses, which include human
hepatitis B virus (HBV). There is strong evidence for hepadnavirus-host co-divergence
stretching back for effectively the entire time-span of vertebrate evolution (49).(53, 55).
Cross-species transmission has occurred on this background of co-divergence, with a
recent analysis revealing ~13 host jumps over an evolutionary period of approximately
400 million years (46). Although our sample of hepadnaviruses is inevitably small,(50).
Although our sample of hepadnaviruses is inevitably small, with new hepadnaviruses
recently identified in fish (55), and more cases of cross-species transmission will
assuredly be found, this very roughly equates to a successful cross species transmission
event every 30 million years. Even if the rate of host jumping is 10,000 times more
frequent, occurring once every 3,000 years, this is still far too broad brush a timescale to
provide any meaningful predictive value for the study of human disease emergence. A
similar story can be told for the influenza viruses. Although these are exemplars of cross-
species transmission (51), which occurs frequently in the Orthomyxoviridae (46),(56),
which occurs frequently in the Orthomyxoviridae (50), it is still problematic to make these
predictions over the timescale of human observation. For example, the emergence of
H3N8 equine influenza virus from an avian host took place in the early 1960s. Although
this virus is clearly adapted for mammalian respiratory transmission, there is no evidence
that it has transmitted to humans during the last 50 years.
Those cases in which viruses have been deliberately released as biological controls also
highlight the disconnect between evolutionary and epidemiological timescales. These
natural experiments proceed over epidemiological timescales which in many ways
parallel the natural emergence and spread of a novel virus in a new host. Most notably,
15
Open Biology/Perspectives
both myxomavirus (a poxvirus) and rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (a calicivirus) have
been successfully released as biological controls into populations of European rabbits in
Australia and Europe, in the 1950s and 1990s, respectively (52). What is particularly
striking is that to date there are no(57). What is particularly striking is that to date there
are no strongly supported cases of these viruses jumping into other (i.e. non-lagomorph)
species over the timescale of release, even though both these virus families appear to
experience very frequent host-jumping over long evolutionary timescales (46).virus
families appear to experience very frequent host-jumping over long evolutionary
timescales (50). Hence, the observation that poxviruses can frequently jump species
boundaries over evolutionary timescales provides no assistance in predicting what
happens on the shorter timescalestimescale that govern epidemics.
5. A population-genetic framework to understand virus emergence
The study of virus emergence represents a synthesis of two different types of scientific
enquiry: virology, which aims to determine, usually experimentally, the mutations that
enable a virus to infect a new host, and epidemiology, which primarily seeks to identify
the ecological factors responsible for viruses crossing the species boundary and
spreading in a new host.
We believecontend that both these approaches can be synthesised within a single
population genetic framework. Specifically, the cross-species transmission and
emergence of a virus in a new host mightcan be explainedenvisioned as a simple form of
the adaptive process, wherein which the subject under consideration is the acquisition of
mutations that facilitate replication and transmission and hence increase viral fitness.
16
Open Biology/Perspectives
Although they may be of myriad form, the ecological factors that dictate whether such
an emergence event will be successful are directly analogous to the random sampling
effects that necessarily impact the spread of any new allele in a population, increasing
the likelihood of genetic drift that will in turn result in stochastic loss. For example, the
extensive contact heterogeneity (i.e. lack of susceptible hosts) that prevents CIV
spreading in the domestic dog population is equivalent to the fate of an advantageous
allele in a small host population. That is, although the virus (mutation) may be host
adapted (advantageous), it will not spread far because the host population is so
small/sparse that genetic drift dominates substitution dynamics (and even strongly
advantageous alleles may be lost rather than fixed in small populations).
We suggest that this new population genetic view of the process of cross-species
transmission and emergence can be achieved by making the move away from thinking
about viruses spreading horizontally through a population (by host-to-host transmission),
which is the realm of epidemiology, and towards thinking about virus alleles/genes being
inherited vertically, which is the domain of population genetics. A well-understood
framework is that successful cross-species transmission requires three steps: (i) encounter
a new host species, (ii) infection of that new host, and (iii) propagation in new host
population (53). Genetic adaptationthe new host population (58). Adaptation to the new
host species may often represent a major challenge, as mutations that are beneficial in
this host also likely decrease fitness in the donor host species. This opposing selection
between donor and recipient hosts shapes the adaptive landscape of viral emergence
(21).reservoir host species. This opposing selection between reservoir and recipient hosts
shapes the adaptive landscape of viral emergence (25). For example, as the gradient of
the adaptive landscape increases, genetic variants are subjected to stronger opposing
17
Open Biology/Perspectives
selection between the donorreservoir and the recipient hosts. Models of this adaptive
process therefore offer an indication of which part of parameter space the host
adaptation of a novel virus might be possible (2, 4, 21, 23).(2, 4, 25, 27).
Importantly, however, this adaptive process must also occur within the background of
random sampling. Because of a lack of host contacts, or descendants, genetic drift will
reduce sampling of the fittest virus and decrease the probability of emergence. Hence, as
the host population increases in size, the probability that a virus will be sampled
increases (Figure 4).), although it is likely that additional factors, including prior immunity
and population age structure, will also impact the probability of virus sampling. A simple
lesson from this new realisationapproach is that host population size and density – which
can be thought of as comprising the ‘effective susceptible population size’ for an
emerging virus – will have a major impact on whether a new virus will successfully
spread in a population, irrespective of the fitness of a particular mutation (i.e. whether a
virus contains all the mutations necessary to adapt it to a new host). Consequently, if the
fitness of a virus and the hosteffective susceptible population size were known, or even Formatted: Font color: Auto
measurable, it would be possible to make bounded estimates of how likely a successful
emergence event might be.
The importance of genetic drift can also be seen in the transmission bottlenecks that will
routinely occur as a virus moves between hosts (54), which likely puts a brake on host
adaptation (55-58).(59), which likely put a brake on host adaptation (59-63). Even if a
specific variant is favoured within an individual host, but does not increase sufficiently in
frequency (i.e. such that is still found at sub-consensus levels), then a severe population
bottleneck may result in its loss. Clearly, the more severe the population bottleneck, the
less natural selection will be able to optimise viral fitness at the epidemiological scale.
18
Open Biology/Perspectives
Despite the insights provided by this population genetic framework, the vastness of the
unknown virosphere means that all such theories of emergence are probably of more
use in predicting the population impact of emergence rather than predicting what might
emerge next and in what location.
6. Sampling the human-animal interface: fault-lines of disease
emergence
If the accurate prediction of virus emergence is impractical, or even unattainable, what
can be done to help prevent the emergence of major epidemic or pandemic disease in
humans? Cross-species transmission events highlight the public health threat of wildlife
trade and consumption, and heightened contact between animal hosts and humans has
likely facilitated cross-species transmission and provided increased opportunity for
transmission events. It is therefore critical to direct our attention to the animal-human
interface (humans, livestock trade and consumption, wildlife, environment) as this can be
thought of as the ‘fault-line’ at which most disease emergence events occur.
We therefore propose that a more effective practical strategy for managing emerging
and re-emerging epidemic or pandemic disease is the targeted surveillance of viromes at
the human-animal interface. The vast biodiversity of viruses in the animal world makes
their analysis prior to any emergence in humans a Sisyphean exercise. Rather, humans
are the best sentinels: a virus discovered in humans very obviously can replicate in that
host, which will not be the case for myriad viruses identified through biodiversity surveys
of other animal taxa.
19
Open Biology/Perspectives
We therefore urge regular genomic surveillance at the fault-line of disease emergence
that captures this human-animal interface (Figure 4). Examples of this interface that could
be sampled are those associated with (i) major changes in land-use, particularly human
encroachment into forest areas during deforestation; (ii) occupational exposure to live
animal markets; and (iii) changes in human demographics, behaviour and political
instability that result in population mobility and displacement. To take one specific
example, the hunting and butchering of wild animals, and the meat trade that flows from
it, is common practice among many countries. This activity must represent a conduit for
cross-species pathogen transmission, and is likely responsible for the transfer of simian
retroviruses from infected nonhuman primates to humans (59). Virological surveillance of
those working in the bushmeat trade therefore appears a necessary measure.
Importantly, accelerating environmental and anthropogenic changes are expanding the
human-animal interface (59),This activity must represent a conduit for cross-species
pathogen transmission, and is likely responsible for the transfer of simian retroviruses
from infected non-human primates to humans (64). Virological surveillance of those
working in the bushmeat trade therefore appears a necessary measure. Importantly,
accelerating environmental and anthropogenic changes are expanding the human-animal
interface (59), and the rapid movement of humans and livestock, as well as agricultural
produce, highlights the importance of effective surveillance.
This virome surveillance should be ongoing and performed simultaneously on multiple
human populations globally. While, with existing serological data perhaps helping to
determine which geographical locations harbour human populations most frequently
exposed to animal viruses and hence where virome surveillance will be most informative.
In addition, while metagenomics is hugely powerful in characterising the viromes of
20
Open Biology/Perspectives
individual organisms, including the discovery of new species, it requires active infection
(replication) and that samples be taken from tissues that contain the virus. For this
reason meta-serological surveys will also be of importance as they enable the
identification of infections that have occurred in the recent past.
7. Conclusions
Predicting virus emergence has risen to become a key goal of the study of infectious
disease. The study of virus evolution has revealed much about the nature of virus
emergence and its history over evolutionary timescales. However, due to the
fundamental differences between evolutionary and epidemiological timescales, a focus
on virus evolution may in fact be a distraction when it comes to predicting the next virus
pandemic. Similarly, while virological features that increase the likelihood of virus
emergibility can be identified, these features cannot be treated as hard and fast rules
determining which viruses will in fact successfully emerge. Further, many of these
features are only capable of being observed after emergence occurs, such that they are
likely to be of little predictive power. In partial response to these problems, we suggest
that the field may be advanced by utilizing a population genetic framework that melds
genetic and ecological studies of virus emergence, and which highlights how the
effective susceptible population size of a new host plays a major role in dictating the
chance of successful emergence. In this manner we identify the possibility of a
meaningful theoretical framework for the study of emergence that is grounded in
evolutionary theory, but that tunes out the ‘noise’ of virus macroevolution.
21
Open Biology/Perspectives
Despite such a framework, the inconvenient truth for all those working in the realm of
disease emergence is that the vastness of the unknown virosphere and the diverse range
of viruses that have achieved endemic transmission in humans means that any attempt
to predict what virus may emerge next will face substantial, and likely crippling,
difficulties. In light of this we suggest it may be of more benefit to public health to
target, via surveillance, the fault-line of disease emergence that is the human-animal
interface, particular those shaped by ecological disturbance. Once a virus is identified as
being of interest in this manner, other analyses may be able to assess its impact and
pandemic potential. Such a shift in focus, away from being able to make predictions of
emergence based on fundamental rules and toward the better assessment of emergence
impact, is likely both more achievable and more likely to provide positive public health
outcomes.
Competing interests. We declare we have no competing interests.
Author’s contributions. JLG and ECH jointly conceived and wrote the paper. Both authors
gave final approval for publication.
Funding. ECH is funded by an Australia Fellowship from the National Health and Medical
Research Council, Australia (GNT1037231).
22
Open Biology/Perspectives
Figure Legends
Figure 1. Illustration of the relative size of the potentially unknown virosphere. The
estimates shown are based on the assumption that approximately 10010 viruses might
be capable of infecting each of the estimated 8.7 million eukaryotic species on earth
(27).(27). Currently, the ICTV recognises 4404 virus species in both eukaryotes and
prokaryotes (although many others are awaiting classification), which means that
99.999493799949379% of the virosphere remains undiscovered or unclassified.
Figure 2. Possible effects of host biodiversity on the probability of viral emergence. The
red arrows at the bottom depict instances of increased emergence risk. Wildlife host
species richness has been proposed as an important predictor of disease emergence.
Likewise, host populations of low biodiversity might harbour fewer viruses and a
decreased risk of emergence. Conversely, high host biodiversity has also been linked to a
decrease in disease risk through the ‘dilution effect’.
Figure 3. Phylogenetic analyses of a virus family, seemingly showing many instances of
cross-species transmission over evolutionary timescales (i.e. virus macroevolution).
Critically, however, the adaptive processes (i.e. mutation and selection) that lead to virus
‘spill-overs’ and possible emergence in a new host are more informative when
considering a shorter, microevolutionary timescale.
Figure 4. Exemplifying the human-animal interface as the fault-line of disease
emergence. Following a cross-species transmission event, a virus might cause a dead end
23
Open Biology/Perspectives
‘spill-over’ or it might be genetically adapted to be transmissible between members of
the new host species. TheEven for emergent viruses of high fitness the probability of
emergence and the size of the outbreak relies on a large and dense host population,
even for emergent viruses of high fitness.as well as a variety of other ecological factors
that can be thought of as comprising the ‘effective susceptible population size’ (x-axis,
right hand panel).
24
Open Biology/Perspectives
References
1. Morse SS. 1995 Factors in the emergence of infectious diseases. Emerg. Infect.
Dis. 1, 1 7-15. (doi:10.3201/eid0101.950102)
2. Russell CA, Fonville JM, Brown AEX, Burke DF, Smith DL, James SL, Herfst S, van
Boheemen S, Linster M, Schrauwen EJ, et al. 2012 The potential for respiratory droplet
transmissible A/H5N1 influenza virus to evolve in a mammalian host. Science 336, 6088
1541-1547. (doi:10.1126/science.1222526)
3. Blumberg S, Lloyd-Smith JO. 2013 Inference of R0 and transmission heterogeneity
from the size distribution of stuttering chains. PLoS Comput. Biol. 9, 5 e1002993.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002993)
4. Park M, Loverdo C, Schreiber SJ, Lloyd-Smith JO. 2013 Multiple scales of selection
influence the evolutionary emergence of novel pathogens. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B.
Biol. Sci. 368, 1614 (doi:10.1098/rstb.2012.0333)
5. Jones KE, Patel NG, Levy MA, Storeygard A, Balk D, Gittleman JL, Daszak P. 2008
Global trends in emerging infectious diseases. Nature 451, 7181 990-993.
(doi:10.1038/nature06536)
6. Olival KJ, Hosseini PR, Zambrana-Torrelio C, Ross N, Bogich TL, Daszak P. 2017
Host and viral traits predict zoonotic spillover from mammals. Nature 546, 7660 646-650.
(doi:10.1038/nature22975)
7. Geoghegan JL, Senior AM, Di Giallonardo F, Holmes EC. 2016 Virological factors
that increase the transmissibility of emerging human viruses. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
113, 15 4170-4175. (doi:10.1073/pnas.1521582113)
8. Plowright RK, Parrish CR, McCallum H, Hudson PJ, Ko AI, Graham AL, Lloyd-Smith
JO. 2017 Pathways to zoonotic spillover. Nat. Rev. Micro. In press.
(doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2017.45)
25
Open Biology/Perspectives
9. Lam TT, Zhou B, Wang J, Chai Y, Shen Y, Chen X, Ma C, Hong W, Chen Y, Zhang
Y, et al. 2015 Dissemination, divergence and establishment of H7N9 influenza viruses in
China. Nature 522, 7554 102-105. (doi:10.1038/nature14348)
10. Dudas G, Carvalho LM, Bedford T, Tatem AJ, Baele G, Faria NR, Park DJ, Ladner JT,
Arias A, Asogun D, et al. 2017 Virus genomes reveal factors that spread and sustained
the Ebola epidemic. Nature 544, 7650 309-315. (doi:10.1038/nature22040)
11. Urbanowicz Richard A, McClure C P, Sakuntabhai A, Sall Amadou A, Kobinger G,
Müller Marcel A, Holmes Edward C, Rey Félix A, Simon-Loriere E, Ball Jonathan K. 2016
Human adaptation of Ebola virus during the West African outbreak. Cell 167, 4 1079-
1087.e1075. (doi:10.1016/j.cell.2016.10.013)
12. Diehl WE, Lin AE, Grubaugh ND, Carvalho LM, Kim K, Kyawe PP, McCauley SM,
Donnard E, Kucukural A, McDonel P, et al. 2016 Ebola virus glycoprotein with increased
infectivity dominated the 2013-2016 epidemic. Cell 167, 4 1088-1098.e1086.
(doi:10.1016/j.cell.2016.10.014)
13. Herfst S, Schrauwen EJ, Linster M, Chutinimitkul S, de Wit E, Munster VJ, Sorrell
EM, Bestebroer TM, Burke DF, Smith DJ, et al. 2012 Airborne transmission of influenza
A/H5N1 virus between ferrets. Science 336, 6088 1534-1541.
(doi:10.1126/science.1213362)
14. Taubenberger JK, Kash JC. 2010 Influenza virus evolution, host adaptation and
pandemic formation. Cell Host Microbe 7, 6 440-451. (doi:10.1016/j.chom.2010.05.009)
15. Zaraket H, Bridges OA, Russell CJ. 2013 The pH of activation of the hemagglutinin
protein regulates H5N1 influenza virus replication and pathogenesis in mice. J. Virol. 87,
9 4826-4834. (doi:10.1128/jvi.03110-12)
16. Crawford PC, Dubovi EJ, Castleman WL, Stephenson I, Gibbs EP, Chen L, Smith C,
Hill RC, Ferro P, Pompey J, et al. 2005 Transmission of equine influenza virus to dogs.
Science 310, 5747 482-485. (doi:10.1126/science.1117950)
17. Dalziel BD, Huang K, Geoghegan JL, Arinaminpathy N, Dubovi EJ, Grenfell BT,
Ellner SP, Holmes EC, Parrish CR. 2014 Contact heterogeneity, rather than transmission
26
Open Biology/Perspectives
efficiency, limits the emergence and spread of canine influenza virus. PLoS Pathog. 10, 10
e1004455. (doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1004455)
18. Parrish CR, Holmes EC, Morens DM, Park EC, Burke DS, Calisher CH, Laughlin CA,
Saif LJ, Daszak P. 2008 Cross-species virus transmission and the emergence of new
epidemic diseases. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 72, 3 457-470. (doi:10.1128/mmbr.00004-08)
19. Stephen SM. 1995 Factors in the emergence of infectious diseases. Emerg. Infect.
Dis. 1, 1 7. (doi:10.3201/eid0101.950102)
20. Johnson CK, Hitchens PL, Evans TS, Goldstein T, Thomas K, Clements A, Joly DO,
Wolfe ND, Daszak P, Karesh WB, et al. 2015 Spillover and pandemic properties of
zoonotic viruses with high host plasticity. Sci. Rep. 5, (doi:10.1038/srep14830)
21. Geoghegan JL, Senior AM, Holmes EC. 2016 Pathogen population bottlenecks and
adaptive landscapes: overcoming the barriers to disease emergence. Proc. R. Soc. Lond.
B. Biol. 283, 1837 (doi:10.1098/rspb.2016.0727)
22. Lipsitch M, Barclay W, Raman R, Russell CJ, Belser JA, Cobey S, Kasson PM, Lloyd-
Smith JO, Maurer-Stroh S, Riley S, et al. 2016 Viral factors in influenza pandemic risk
assessment. eLife 5, (doi:10.7554/eLife.18491)
23. Fonville JM. 2015 Expected effect of deleterious mutations on within-host
adaptation of pathogens. J. Virol. 89, 18 9242-9251. (doi:10.1128/jvi.00832-15)
24. Daszak P, Carroll D, Wolfe N, Mazet J. 2016 The global virome project. Int. J.
Infect. Dis. 53, 36. (doi:10.1016/j.ijid.2016.11.097)
25. Shi M, Lin X-D, Tian J-H, Chen L-J, Chen X, Li C-X, Qin X-C, Li J, Cao J-P, Eden J-S,
et al. 2016 Redefining the invertebrate RNA virosphere. Nature 540, 7634 539-543.
(doi:10.1038/nature20167)
26. Li C-X, Shi M, Tian J-H, Lin X-D, Kang Y-J, Chen L-J, Qin X-C, Xu J, Holmes EC,
Zhang Y-Z. 2015 Unprecedented genomic diversity of RNA viruses in arthropods reveals
the ancestry of negative-sense RNA viruses. eLife 4, e05378. (doi:10.7554/eLife.05378)
27
Open Biology/Perspectives
27. Mora C, Tittensor DP, Adl S, Simpson AGB, Worm B. 2011 How many species are
there on Earth and in the ocean? PLoS Biol. 9, 8 e1001127.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1001127)
28. Webster CL, Waldron FM, Robertson S, Crowson D, Ferrari G, Quintana JF, Brouqui
JM, Bayne EH, Longdon B, Buck AH, et al. 2015 The discovery, distribution, and evolution
of viruses associated with drosophila melanogaster. PLoS Biol. 13, 7 e1002210.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1002210)
29. Culley AI, Lang AS, Suttle CA. 2006 Metagenomic analysis of coastal RNA virus
communities. Science 312, 5781 1795-1798. (doi:10.1126/science.1127404)
30. Desnues C, Rodriguez-Brito B, Rayhawk S, Kelley S, Tran T, Haynes M, Liu H,
Furlan M, Wegley L, Chau B, et al. 2008 Biodiversity and biogeography of phages in
modern stromatolites and thrombolites. Nature 452, 7185 340-343.
(doi:10.1038/nature06735)
31. Paez-Espino D, Eloe-Fadrosh EA, Pavlopoulos GA, Thomas AD, Huntemann M,
Mikhailova N, Rubin E, Ivanova NN, Kyrpides NC. 2016 Uncovering Earth's virome. Nature
536, 7617 425-430. (doi:10.1038/nature19094)
32. Yao Y, Li X, Liao B, Huang L, He P, Wang F, Yang J, Sun H, Zhao Y, Yang J. 2017
Predicting influenza antigenicity from Hemagglutintin sequence data based on a joint
random forest method. Sci. Rep. 7, 1 1545. (doi:10.1038/s41598-017-01699-z)
33. Woolhouse MEJ, Ashworth JL. 2017 Can we identify viruses with pandemic
potential? The Biochemist 39, 3 8-11. biochemistry.org
34. García-Sastre A. 2010 Influenza virus receptor specificity: disease and transmission.
Am. J. Pathol. 176, 4 1584-1585. (doi:10.2353/ajpath.2010.100066)
35. Li W, Shi Z, Yu M, Ren W, Smith C, Epstein JH, Wang H, Crameri G, Hu Z, Zhang
H, et al. 2005 Bats are natural reservoirs of SARS-like coronaviruses. Science 310, 5748
676-679. (doi:10.1126/science.1118391)
28
Open Biology/Perspectives
36. Anthony SJ, Johnson CK, Greig DJ, Kramer S, Che X, Wells H, Hicks AL, Joly DO,
Wolfe ND, Daszak P, et al. 2017 Global patterns in coronavirus diversity. Virus Evol. 3, 1
vex012-vex012. (doi:10.1093/ve/vex012)
37. Luis AD, Hayman DT, O'Shea TJ, Cryan PM, Gilbert AT, Pulliam JR, Mills JN,
Timonin ME, Willis CK, Cunningham AA, et al. 2013 A comparison of bats and rodents as
reservoirs of zoonotic viruses: are bats special? Proc. Biol. Sci. 280, 1756 20122753.
(doi:10.1098/rspb.2012.2753)
38. Dick GW, Kitchen SF, Haddow AJ. 1952 Zika virus. I. Isolations and serological
specificity. Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 46, 5 509-520. (doi:doi.org/10.1016/0035-
9203(52)90042-4)
39. Milne-Price S, Miazgowicz KL, Munster VJ. 2014 The emergence of the Middle
East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Pathog. Dis. 71, 2 119-134.
(doi:10.1111/2049-632X.12166)
40. Schmidt KA, Ostfeld RS. 2001 Biodiversity and the dilution effect in disease
ecology. Ecology 82, 3 609-619. (doi:10.1890/0012-9658(2001)082[0609:BATDEI]2.0.CO;2)
41. Johnson PTJ, Preston DL, Hoverman JT, Richgels KLD. 2013 Biodiversity decreases
disease through predictable changes in host community competence. Nature 494, 7436
230-233. (doi:10.1038/nature11883)
42. Allan BF, Langerhans RB, Ryberg WA, Landesman WJ, Griffin NW, Katz RS, Oberle
BJ, Schutzenhofer MR, Smyth KN, de St Maurice A, et al. 2009 Ecological correlates of
risk and incidence of West Nile virus in the United States. Oecologia 158, 4 699-708.
(doi:10.1007/s00442-008-1169-9)
43. Clay CA, Lehmer EM, Jeor SS, Dearing MD. 2009 Sin Nombre virus and rodent
species diversity: a test of the dilution and amplification hypotheses. PLOS ONE 4, 7
e6467. (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0006467)
44. Haas SE, Hooten MB, Rizzo DM, Meentemeyer RK. 2011 Forest species diversity
reduces disease risk in a generalist plant pathogen invasion. Ecol. Lett. 14, 11 1108-1116.
(doi:10.1111/j.1461-0248.2011.01679.x)
29
Open Biology/Perspectives
45. LoGiudice K, Ostfeld RS, Schmidt KA, Keesing F. 2003 The ecology of infectious
disease: effects of host diversity and community composition on Lyme disease risk. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 100, 2 567-571. (doi:10.1073/pnas.0233733100)
46. Geoghegan JL, Duchêne S, Holmes EC. 2017 Comparative analysis estimates the
relative frequencies of co-divergence and cross-species transmission within viral families.
PLoS Pathog. 13, 2 e1006215. (doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1006215)
47. Read AF. 1994 The evolution of virulence. Trends Microbiol. 2, 3 73-76.
(doi:10.1016/0966-842X(94)90537-1)
48. Luksza M, Lassig M. 2014 A predictive fitness model for influenza. Nature 507,
7490 57-61. (doi:10.1038/nature13087)
49. Dill JA, Camus AC, Leary JH, Di Giallonardo F, Holmes EC, Ng TF. 2016 Distinct
viral lineages from fish and amphibians reveal the complex evolutionary history of
hepadnaviruses. J. Virol. 90, 17 7920-7933. (doi:10.1128/jvi.00832-16)
50. Katzourakis A, Gifford RJ. 2010 Endogenous viral elements in animal genomes.
PLoS Genet. 6, 11 e1001191. (doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1001191)
51. Horimoto T, Kawaoka Y. 2005 Influenza: lessons from past pandemics, warnings
from current incidents. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 3, 8 591-600. (doi:10.1038/nrmicro1208)
52. Di Giallonardo F, Holmes EC. 2015 Exploring host-pathogen interactions through
biological control. PLoS Pathog. 11, 6 e1004865. (doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1004865)
53. Moury B, Fabre F, Hébrard E, Froissart R. 2017 Determinants of host species range
in plant viruses. J. Gen. Virol. 98, 4 862-873. (doi:doi:10.1099/jgv.0.000742)
54. Leonard AS, Weissman D, Greenbaum B, Ghedin E, Koelle K. 2017 Transmission
bottleneck size estimation from pathogen deep-sequencing data, with an application to
human influenza A virus. J. Virol. 91, 14 e00171-00117. (doi:10.1128/JVI.00171-17)
55. Zwart MP, Elena SF. 2015 Matters of size: genetic bottlenecks in virus infection
and their potential impact on evolution. Annu Rev Virol 2, 1 161-179.
(doi:doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-100114-055135)
30
Open Biology/Perspectives
56. Grubaugh ND, Fauver JR, Ruckert C, Weger-Lucarelli J, Garcia-Luna S, Murrieta RA,
Gendernalik A, Smith DR, Brackney DE, Ebel GD. 2017 Mosquitoes transmit unique West
Nile virus populations during each feeding episode. Cell Rep. 19, 4 709-718.
(doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2017.03.076)
57. Stack JC, Murcia PR, Grenfell BT, Wood JL, Holmes EC. 2013 Inferring the inter-
host transmission of influenza A virus using patterns of intra-host genetic variation. Proc
Biol Sci 280, 1750 20122173. (doi:10.1098/rspb.2012.2173)
58. Moncla LH, Zhong G, Nelson CW, Dinis JM, Mutschler J, Hughes AL, Watanabe T,
Kawaoka Y, Friedrich TC. 2016 Selective bottlenecks shape evolutionary pathways taken
during mammalian adaptation of a 1918-like avian influenza virus. Cell Host Microbe 19,
2 169-180. (doi:10.1016/j.chom.2016.01.011)
59. Kelly TR, Karesh WB, Johnson CK, Gilardi KVK, Anthony SJ, Goldstein T, Olson SH,
Machalaba C, Mazet JAK. 2017 One Health proof of concept: Bringing a transdisciplinary
approach to surveillance for zoonotic viruses at the human-wild animal interface. Prev.
Vet. Med. 137, 112-118. (doi:10.1016/j.prevetmed.2016.11.023)
1. Morse SS. 1995 Factors in the emergence of infectious diseases. Emerg. Infect.
Dis. 1, 7-15. (doi:10.3201/eid0101.950102)
2. Russell CA, Fonville JM, Brown AEX, Burke DF, Smith DL, James SL, Herfst S, van
Boheemen S, Linster M, Schrauwen EJ, et al. 2012 The potential for respiratory droplet
transmissible A/H5N1 influenza virus to evolve in a mammalian host. Science 336, 1541-
1547. (doi:10.1126/science.1222526)
3. Blumberg S, Lloyd-Smith JO. 2013 Inference of R0 and transmission heterogeneity
from the size distribution of stuttering chains. PLoS Comput. Biol. 9, e1002993.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002993)
4. Park M, Loverdo C, Schreiber SJ, Lloyd-Smith JO. 2013 Multiple scales of selection
influence the evolutionary emergence of novel pathogens. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B.
Biol. Sci. 368, 20120333. (doi:10.1098/rstb.2012.0333)
5. Jones KE, Patel NG, Levy MA, Storeygard A, Balk D, Gittleman JL, Daszak P. 2008
Global trends in emerging infectious diseases. Nature 451, 990-993.
(doi:10.1038/nature06536)
31
Open Biology/Perspectives
6. Olival KJ, Hosseini PR, Zambrana-Torrelio C, Ross N, Bogich TL, Daszak P. 2017
Host and viral traits predict zoonotic spillover from mammals. Nature 546, 7660 646-650.
(doi:10.1038/nature22975)
7. Geoghegan JL, Senior AM, Di Giallonardo F, Holmes EC. 2016 Virological factors
that increase the transmissibility of emerging human viruses. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
113, 4170-4175. (doi:10.1073/pnas.1521582113)
8. Plowright RK, Parrish CR, McCallum H, Hudson PJ, Ko AI, Graham AL, Lloyd-Smith
JO. 2017 Pathways to zoonotic spillover. Nat. Rev. Micro. 15, 502-510.
(doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2017.45)
9. Lam TT, Zhou B, Wang J, Chai Y, Shen Y, Chen X, Ma C, Hong W, Chen Y, Zhang
Y, et al. 2015 Dissemination, divergence and establishment of H7N9 influenza viruses in
China. Nature 522, 102-105. (doi:10.1038/nature14348)
10. Dudas G, Carvalho LM, Bedford T, Tatem AJ, Baele G, Faria NR, Park DJ, Ladner JT,
Arias A, Asogun D, et al. 2017 Virus genomes reveal factors that spread and sustained
the Ebola epidemic. Nature 544, 309-315. (doi:10.1038/nature22040)
11. Urbanowicz RA, McClure CP, Sakuntabhai A, Sall AA, Kobinger G, Müller MA,
Holmes EC, Rey FA, Simon-Loriere E, Ball JK. 2016 Human adaptation of Ebola virus
during the West African outbreak. Cell 167, 1079-1087. (doi:10.1016/j.cell.2016.10.013)
12. Diehl WE, Lin AE, Grubaugh ND, Carvalho LM, Kim K, Kyawe PP, McCauley SM,
Donnard E, Kucukural A, McDonel P, et al. 2016 Ebola virus glycoprotein with increased
infectivity dominated the 2013-2016 epidemic. Cell 167, 1088-1098.
(doi:10.1016/j.cell.2016.10.014)
13. Walter S, Rasche A, Moreira-Soto A, Pfaender S, Bletsa M, Corman VM, Aguilar-
Setien A, García-Lacy F, Hans A, Todt D, et al. 2017 Differential infection patterns and
recent evolutionary origins of equine hepaciviruses in donkeys. J. Virol. 91, e01711-16.
(doi:10.1128/JVI.01711-16)
14. Quan P-L, Firth C, Conte J, Williams S, Zambranan C, Anthony A, Ellison J, Gilbert
A, Kuzmin I, Niezgoda M, et al. 2013 Bats are a major natural reservoir for hepaciviruses
32
Open Biology/Perspectives
and pegiviruses. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110, 8194-8199
(doi:10.1073/pnas.1303037110.)
15. Herfst S, Schrauwen EJ, Linster M, Chutinimitkul S, de Wit E, Munster VJ, Sorrell
EM, Bestebroer TM, Burke DF, Smith DJ, et al. 2012 Airborne transmission of influenza
A/H5N1 virus between ferrets. Science 336, 1534-1541. (doi:10.1126/science.1213362)
16. Parrish CR, Holmes EC, Morens DM, Park EC, Burke DS, Calisher CH, Laughlin CA,
Saif LJ, Daszak P. 2008 Cross-species virus transmission and the emergence of new
epidemic diseases. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 72, 457-470. (doi:10.1128/mmbr.00004-08)
17. Taubenberger JK, Kash JC. 2010 Influenza virus evolution, host adaptation and
pandemic formation. Cell Host Microbe 7, 440-451. (doi:10.1016/j.chom.2010.05.009)
18. Zaraket H, Bridges OA, Russell CJ. 2013 The pH of activation of the hemagglutinin
protein regulates H5N1 influenza virus replication and pathogenesis in mice. J. Virol. 87,
4826-4834. (doi:10.1128/jvi.03110-12)
19. Kluge SF, Mack K, Iyer SS, Pujol FM, Heigele A, Learn GH, Usmani SM, Sauter D,
Joas S, Hotter D, et al. 2014 Nef proteins of epidemic HIV-1 group O strains antagonize
human tetherin. Cell Host Microbe 16, 639-650. (doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2014.10.002)
20. Schindler M, Münch J, Kutsch O, Li H, Santiago ML, Bibollet-Ruche F, Müller-
Trutwin MC, Novembre FJ, Peeters M, Courgnaud V, et al. 2006 Nef-mediated
suppression of T cell activation was lost in a lentiviral lineage that gave rise to HIV-1. Cell
125, 1055-1067.
21. Crawford PC, Dubovi EJ, Castleman WL, Stephenson I, Gibbs EP, Chen L, Smith C,
Hill RC, Ferro P, Pompey J, et al. 2005 Transmission of equine influenza virus to dogs.
Science 310, 482-485. (doi:10.1126/science.1117950)
22. Dalziel BD, Huang K, Geoghegan JL, Arinaminpathy N, Dubovi EJ, Grenfell BT,
Ellner SP, Holmes EC, Parrish CR. 2014 Contact heterogeneity, rather than transmission
efficiency, limits the emergence and spread of canine influenza virus. PLoS Pathog. 10,
e1004455. (doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1004455)
33
Open Biology/Perspectives
23. Stephen SM. 1995 Factors in the emergence of infectious diseases. Emerg. Infect.
Dis. 1, 7-15. (doi:10.3201/eid0101.950102)
24. Johnson CK, Hitchens PL, Evans TS, Goldstein T, Thomas K, Clements A, Joly DO,
Wolfe ND, Daszak P, Karesh WB, et al. 2015 Spillover and pandemic properties of
zoonotic viruses with high host plasticity. Sci. Rep. 5, 14830. (doi:10.1038/srep14830)
25. Geoghegan JL, Senior AM, Holmes EC. 2016 Pathogen population bottlenecks and
adaptive landscapes: overcoming the barriers to disease emergence. Proc. R. Soc. Lond.
B. Biol. 283, 20160727. (doi:10.1098/rspb.2016.0727)
26. Lipsitch M, Barclay W, Raman R, Russell CJ, Belser JA, Cobey S, Kasson PM, Lloyd-
Smith JO, Maurer-Stroh S, Riley S, et al. 2016 Viral factors in influenza pandemic risk
assessment. eLife 5, 18491 (doi:10.7554/eLife.18491)
27. Fonville JM. 2015 Expected effect of deleterious mutations on within-host
adaptation of pathogens. J. Virol. 89, 9242-9251. (doi:10.1128/jvi.00832-15)
28. Daszak P, Carroll D, Wolfe N, Mazet J. 2016 The global virome project. Int. J.
Infect. Dis. 53S, 4–163. (doi:10.1016/j.ijid.2016.11.097)
29. Shi M, Lin X-D, Tian J-H, Chen L-J, Chen X, Li C-X, Qin X-C, Li J, Cao J-P, Eden J-S,
et al. 2016 Redefining the invertebrate RNA virosphere. Nature 540, 539-543.
(doi:10.1038/nature20167)
30. Li C-X, Shi M, Tian J-H, Lin X-D, Kang Y-J, Chen L-J, Qin X-C, Xu J, Holmes EC,
Zhang Y-Z. 2015 Unprecedented genomic diversity of RNA viruses in arthropods reveals
the ancestry of negative-sense RNA viruses. eLife 4, e05378. (doi:10.7554/eLife.05378)
31. Mora C, Tittensor DP, Adl S, Simpson AGB, Worm B. 2011 How many species are
there on Earth and in the ocean? PLoS Biol. 9, e1001127.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1001127)
32. Webster CL, Waldron FM, Robertson S, Crowson D, Ferrari G, Quintana JF, Brouqui
JM, Bayne EH, Longdon B, Buck AH, et al. 2015 The discovery, distribution, and evolution
of viruses associated with Drosophila melanogaster. PLoS Biol. 13, e1002210.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1002210)
34
Open Biology/Perspectives
33. Culley AI, Lang AS, Suttle CA. 2006 Metagenomic analysis of coastal RNA virus
communities. Science 312, 1795-1798. (doi:10.1126/science.1127404)
34. Desnues C, Rodriguez-Brito B, Rayhawk S, Kelley S, Tran T, Haynes M, Liu H,
Furlan M, Wegley L, Chau B, et al. 2008 Biodiversity and biogeography of phages in
modern stromatolites and thrombolites. Nature 452, 340-343. (doi:10.1038/nature06735)
35. Paez-Espino D, Eloe-Fadrosh EA, Pavlopoulos GA, Thomas AD, Huntemann M,
Mikhailova N, Rubin E, Ivanova NN, Kyrpides NC. 2016 Uncovering Earth's virome. Nature
536, 425-430. (doi:10.1038/nature19094)
36. Yao Y, Li X, Liao B, Huang L, He P, Wang F, Yang J, Sun H, Zhao Y, Yang J. 2017
Predicting influenza antigenicity from Hemagglutintin sequence data based on a joint
random forest method. Sci. Rep. 7, 1545. (doi:10.1038/s41598-017-01699-z)
37. Woolhouse MEJ, Ashworth JL. 2017 Can we identify viruses with pandemic
potential? The Biochemist 39, 8-11.
38. García-Sastre A. 2010 Influenza virus receptor specificity: disease and transmission.
Am. J. Pathol. 176, 1584-1585. (doi:10.2353/ajpath.2010.100066)
39. Li W, Shi Z, Yu M, Ren W, Smith C, Epstein JH, Wang H, Crameri G, Hu Z, Zhang
H, et al. 2005 Bats are natural reservoirs of SARS-like coronaviruses. Science 310, 676-
679. (doi:10.1126/science.1118391)
40. Anthony SJ, Johnson CK, Greig DJ, Kramer S, Che X, Wells H, Hicks AL, Joly DO,
Wolfe ND, Daszak P, et al. 2017 Global patterns in coronavirus diversity. Virus Evol. 3,
vex012-vex012. (doi:10.1093/ve/vex012)
41. Luis AD, Hayman DT, O'Shea TJ, Cryan PM, Gilbert AT, Pulliam JR, Mills JN,
Timonin ME, Willis CK, Cunningham AA, et al. 2013 A comparison of bats and rodents as
reservoirs of zoonotic viruses: are bats special? Proc. Biol. Sci. 280, 20122753.
(doi:10.1098/rspb.2012.2753)
42. Dick GW, Kitchen SF, Haddow AJ. 1952 Zika virus. I. Isolations and serological
specificity. Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 46, 509-520. (doi:doi.org/10.1016/0035-
9203(52)90042-4)
35
Open Biology/Perspectives
43. Milne-Price S, Miazgowicz KL, Munster VJ. 2014 The emergence of the Middle
East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Pathog. Dis. 71, 119-134.
(doi:10.1111/2049-632X.12166)
44. Schmidt KA, Ostfeld RS. 2001 Biodiversity and the dilution effect in disease
ecology. Ecology 82, 609-619. (doi:10.1890/0012-9658(2001)082[0609:BATDEI]2.0.CO;2)
45. Johnson PTJ, Preston DL, Hoverman JT, Richgels KLD. 2013 Biodiversity decreases
disease through predictable changes in host community competence. Nature 494, 230-
233. (doi:10.1038/nature11883)
46. Allan BF, Langerhans RB, Ryberg WA, Landesman WJ, Griffin NW, Katz RS, Oberle
BJ, Schutzenhofer MR, Smyth KN, de St Maurice A, et al. 2009 Ecological correlates of
risk and incidence of West Nile virus in the United States. Oecologia 158, 699-708.
(doi:10.1007/s00442-008-1169-9)
47. Clay CA, Lehmer EM, Jeor SS, Dearing MD. 2009 Sin Nombre virus and rodent
species diversity: a test of the dilution and amplification hypotheses. PLoS ONE 4, e6467.
(doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0006467)
48. Haas SE, Hooten MB, Rizzo DM, Meentemeyer RK. 2011 Forest species diversity
reduces disease risk in a generalist plant pathogen invasion. Ecol. Lett. 14, 1108-1116.
(doi:10.1111/j.1461-0248.2011.01679.x)
49. LoGiudice K, Ostfeld RS, Schmidt KA, Keesing F. 2003 The ecology of infectious
disease: effects of host diversity and community composition on Lyme disease risk. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 100, 567-571. (doi:10.1073/pnas.0233733100)
50. Geoghegan JL, Duchêne S, Holmes EC. 2017 Comparative analysis estimates the
relative frequencies of co-divergence and cross-species transmission within viral families.
PLoS Pathog. 13, e1006215. (doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1006215)
51. Read AF. 1994 The evolution of virulence. Trends Microbiol. 2, 73-76.
(doi:10.1016/0966-842X(94)90537-1)
52. Luksza M, Lassig M. 2014 A predictive fitness model for influenza. Nature 507, 57-
61. (doi:10.1038/nature13087)
36
Open Biology/Perspectives
53. Dill JA, Camus AC, Leary JH, Di Giallonardo F, Holmes EC, Ng TF. 2016 Distinct
viral lineages from fish and amphibians reveal the complex evolutionary history of
hepadnaviruses. J. Virol. 90, 7920-7933. (doi:10.1128/jvi.00832-16)
54. Katzourakis A, Gifford RJ. 2010 Endogenous viral elements in animal genomes.
PLoS Genet. 6, e1001191. (doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1001191)
55. Lauber C, Seitz S, Mattei S, Suh A, Beck J, Herstein J, Börold J, Salzburger W,
Kaderali L, Briggs JAG, et al. 2017 Deciphering the origin and evolution of hepatitis B
viruses by means of a family of non-enveloped fish viruses. Cell Host Microbe pii S1931-
3128 (doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2017.07.019)
56. Horimoto T, Kawaoka Y. 2005 Influenza: lessons from past pandemics, warnings
from current incidents. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 3, 591-600. (doi:10.1038/nrmicro1208)
57. Di Giallonardo F, Holmes EC. 2015 Exploring host-pathogen interactions through
biological control. PLoS Pathog. 11, e1004865. (doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1004865)
58. Moury B, Fabre F, Hébrard E, Froissart R. 2017 Determinants of host species range
in plant viruses. J. Gen. Virol. 98, 862-873. (doi:doi:10.1099/jgv.0.000742)
59. Leonard AS, Weissman D, Greenbaum B, Ghedin E, Koelle K. 2017 Transmission
bottleneck size estimation from pathogen deep-sequencing data, with an application to
human influenza A virus. J. Virol. 91, e00171-17. (doi:10.1128/JVI.00171-17)
60. Zwart MP, Elena SF. 2015 Matters of size: genetic bottlenecks in virus infection
and their potential impact on evolution. Annu Rev Virol 2, 161-179.
(doi:doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-100114-055135)
61. Grubaugh ND, Fauver JR, Ruckert C, Weger-Lucarelli J, Garcia-Luna S, Murrieta RA,
Gendernalik A, Smith DR, Brackney DE, Ebel GD. 2017 Mosquitoes transmit unique West
Nile virus populations during each feeding episode. Cell Rep. 19, 709-718.
(doi:10.1016/j.celrep.2017.03.076)
62. Stack JC, Murcia PR, Grenfell BT, Wood JL, Holmes EC. 2013 Inferring the inter-
host transmission of influenza A virus using patterns of intra-host genetic variation. Proc
Biol Sci 280, 20122173. (doi:10.1098/rspb.2012.2173)
37
Open Biology/Perspectives
63. Moncla LH, Zhong G, Nelson CW, Dinis JM, Mutschler J, Hughes AL, Watanabe T,
Kawaoka Y, Friedrich TC. 2016 Selective bottlenecks shape evolutionary pathways taken
during mammalian adaptation of a 1918-like avian influenza virus. Cell Host Microbe 19,
169-180. (doi:10.1016/j.chom.2016.01.011)
64. Kelly TR, Karesh WB, Johnson CK, Gilardi KVK, Anthony SJ, Goldstein T, Olson SH,
Machalaba C, Mazet JAK. 2017 One Health proof of concept: Bringing a transdisciplinary
approach to surveillance for zoonotic viruses at the human-wild animal interface. Prev.
Vet. Med. 137, 112-118. (doi:10.1016/j.prevetmed.2016.11.023)
38
Open Biology
