Angiogenesis revisited from a metabolic perspective: role
and therapeutic implications of endothelial cell metabolism
Nihed Draoui, Pauline de Zeeuw and Peter Carmeliet
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170219.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170219
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0219.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Edgar Abarca-Rojano)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
I enjoyed reading this review. The concepts described are interesting and show new evidence of
the "metabolic change" in ECs, including “... glycolysis, necessary for tip cell function and vessel
sprouting ...and FAO is essential for vessel sprout elongation...” (stalk cells). The review provides
a basic overview of how metabolic signaling controls the speciation of these cells. It will
undoubtedly be a good reference for a wide range of readers interested in this topic.
I would like to ask the authors something that may suggest future directions in this field. Do you
have any evidence about the role of PKM2 in the tip cell?
I recommend that the review be accepted.
Edgar Abarca-Rojano PhD
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
In this study Draoui N et al. briefly review those key metabolic pathways in the biology of tip,
proliferating and quiescent endothelial cells as well as those critically involved in lymphatic
vessel development. In particular, they review the role of glycolysis in the migratory properties of
tip endothelial cells, the role of fatty acid oxidation in DNA synthesis required for proliferating
endothelial cells as well as lymphatic vessel growth, and finally the role of glutamine and
asparagine metabolism in angiogenesis. The review is very well organized covering key recent
and relevant studies about the role of ECs metabolism in the control of angiogenesis. I suggest the
following two issues that could be potentially discussed to help the reader for a better
understanding of this topic.
Major comments
1) Previous key studies from the authors have unequivocally demonstrated an essential role of
endothelial cell glycolysis in vessel sprouting. Based on the information provided in this review
and previous studies of the authors, it can be understood that glycolysis is dominant in both tip
and stalk cells. In particular, tip ECs primarily rely on glycolysis, because is critical for
cytoskeleton dynamics during cell migration. It could also be understood than glycolytic rate in
stalk cells (though still dominant) is lower than in tip cells because stalk cells have less migratory
potential than tip cells? Along this line, it could help if authors can briefly discuss whether the
role of glycolysis in proliferating stalk endothelial cells can be potentially different than tip cells.
2) In line with the first comment, authors could briefly discussed whether the glutaminase 1
(GLS1) and asparagine synthetase (ASNS)-dependent endothelial cell metabolism could be more
prominent in proliferating stalk cells than migratory tip cells.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0219)
13-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Draoui,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0219 entitled "Angiogenesis
revisited from a metabolic perspective: role and therapeutic implications of endothelial cell
metabolism" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s)
have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript.
Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
4
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
As a conscientious publisher, Open Biology is keen to get your opinion on the publishing system
so we can adapt and make the process more author-friendly. In order to achieve this, we would
like to invite you to participate in a survey being conducted by Editage Insights by clicking on the
following link: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/author-perspectives-on-academic-
publishing-royal-society
This should take no more than 15 minutes and you will have the opportunity to enter a prize
draw. We hope these results will provide us with valuable insights we can use to improve our
service.
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I enjoyed reading this review. The concepts described are interesting and show new evidence of
the "metabolic change" in ECs, including “... glycolysis, necessary for tip cell function and vessel
sprouting ...and FAO is essential for vessel sprout elongation...” (stalk cells). The review provides
a basic overview of how metabolic signaling controls the speciation of these cells. It will
undoubtedly be a good reference for a wide range of readers interested in this topic.
I would like to ask the authors something that may suggest future directions in this field. Do you
have any evidence about the role of PKM2 in the tip cell?
I recommend that the review be accepted.
Edgar Abarca-Rojano PhD
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In this study Draoui N et al. briefly review those key metabolic pathways in the biology of tip,
proliferating and quiescent endothelial cells as well as those critically involved in lymphatic
vessel development. In particular, they review the role of glycolysis in the migratory properties of
tip endothelial cells, the role of fatty acid oxidation in DNA synthesis required for proliferating
endothelial cells as well as lymphatic vessel growth, and finally the role of glutamine and
asparagine metabolism in angiogenesis. The review is very well organized covering key recent
and relevant studies about the role of ECs metabolism in the control of angiogenesis. I suggest the
following two issues that could be potentially discussed to help the reader for a better
understanding of this topic.
Major comments
1) Previous key studies from the authors have unequivocally demonstrated an essential role of
endothelial cell glycolysis in vessel sprouting. Based on the information provided in this review
and previous studies of the authors, it can be understood that glycolysis is dominant in both tip
and stalk cells. In particular, tip ECs primarily rely on glycolysis, because is critical for
cytoskeleton dynamics during cell migration. It could also be understood than glycolytic rate in
6
stalk cells (though still dominant) is lower than in tip cells because stalk cells have less migratory
potential than tip cells? Along this line, it could help if authors can briefly discuss whether the
role of glycolysis in proliferating stalk endothelial cells can be potentially different than tip cells.
2) In line with the first comment, authors could briefly discussed whether the glutaminase 1
(GLS1) and asparagine synthetase (ASNS)-dependent endothelial cell metabolism could be more
prominent in proliferating stalk cells than migratory tip cells.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170219)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0219.R1)
28-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Draoui
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Angiogenesis revisited from a
metabolic perspective: role and therapeutic implications of endothelial cell metabolism" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
11/17 1 RSOB-17-0219
pendix A
RESPONSE LETTER TO THE REFEREES
NGIOGENESIS REVISITED FROM A METABOLIC PERSPECTIVE: ROLE AND THERAPEUTIC IMPLICATIONS OF
ENDOTHELIAL CELL METABOLISM
would like to thank the Editor and Reviewers for their constructive comments. Please find below
point-by-point reply to each of the comments. We are convinced that addressing these
mments has benefitted our manuscript.
VIEWER #1
joyed reading this review. The concepts described are interesting and show new evidence of the
etabolic change" in ECs, including “... glycolysis, necessary for tip cell function and vessel
outing ...and FAO is essential for vessel sprout elongation...” (stalk cells). The review provides a
ic overview of how metabolic signaling controls the speciation of these cells. It will undoubtedly
a good reference for a wide range of readers interested in this topic. I would like to ask the
hors something that may suggest future directions in this field. Do you have any evidence about
role of PKM2 in the tip cell? I recommend that the review be accepted.
PONSE: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion to discuss some future directions in the field of
othelial cell (EC) metabolism. We have adapted our manuscript to address this suggestion by
mpiling some interesting perspectives in the previously named “Conclusion” section (now
amed “Conclusion & Perspectives”; see p.17-18). We also thank the reviewer for his insightful
stion on the role of PKM2 in tip cells. A literature search revealed that although PKM (isoforms
nd 2) expression is upregulated in tumor endothelial cells (TECs) (1), only very few (though
ent) studies reported a specific role for PKM2 in ECs in general:
(i) PKM2 silencing in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) was shown to impair
sprouting in EC spheroid experiments, suggesting a possible role for PKM2 in endothelial
cell migration (2).
(ii) The role of PKM2 has also been highlighted in different pathological models. Indeed,
metabolic and proliferative abnormalities of ECs (via enhanced glycolysis) in pulmonary
arterial hypertension (PAH) has been linked to PKM2 (and PKM1), possibly opening new
therapeutic avenues to treat PAH (3).
(iii) Interestingly (although not endothelial-specific), the increase in circulating PKM2 often
observed in cancer patients (4) was demonstrated to support cancer progression by
promoting angiogenesis (5).
(iv) Similarly, during the early stages of the wound healing process, PKM2 release by
infiltrating neutrophils was reported to promote angiogenesis (6).
pite these recent findings, there is no clear/strong evidence for the role of PKM2 in tip cells in
opinion, therefore we have decided not to dedicate a paragraph to PKM in this manuscript.
11/17 2 RSOB-17-0219
VIEWER #2
his study Draoui N et al. briefly review those key metabolic pathways in the biology of tip,
liferating and quiescent endothelial cells as well as those critically involved in lymphatic vessel
elopment. In particular, they review the role of glycolysis in the migratory properties of tip
othelial cells, the role of fatty acid oxidation in DNA synthesis required for proliferating
othelial cells as well as lymphatic vessel growth, and finally the role of glutamine and asparagine
tabolism in angiogenesis. The review is very well-organized covering key recent and relevant
dies about the role of ECs metabolism in the control of angiogenesis. I suggest the following two
es that could be potentially discussed to help the reader for a better understanding of this topic.
jor comments
Previous key studies from the authors have unequivocally demonstrated an essential role of
othelial cell glycolysis in vessel sprouting. Based on the information provided in this review and
vious studies of the authors, it can be understood that glycolysis is dominant in both tip and stalk
s. In particular, tip ECs primarily rely on glycolysis, because is critical for cytoskeleton dynamics
ing cell migration. It could also be understood than glycolytic rate in stalk cells (though still
minant) is lower than in tip cells because stalk cells have less migratory potential than tip cells?
ng this line, it could help if authors can briefly discuss whether the role of glycolysis in
liferating stalk endothelial cells can be potentially different than tip cells.
PONSE: We thank the reviewer for his/her valuable comment on the metabolic/glycolytic
erence between tip and stalk cells. The previous study by De Bock et al. demonstrated that
ratory tip cells primarily rely on glycolysis for rapid ATP production necessary for migration (7).
cular sprout-inducing signals, such as increasing VEGF levels, upregulate PFKFB3 expression and
rease glycolysis, whereas the vascular sprout-limiting signal DLL4 (activating Notch) has an
osite outcome. Moreover, PFKFB3 overexpression was shown to promote a tip-over-stalk cell
notype. As such, one may conclude that migratory tip cells rely on glycolysis. Still, we have
pted our manuscript by re-emphasizing the importance of glycolysis in stalk cells which use
colysis for biomass production (see p.7 line 155; p.8 lines 172-176; p.8 line 188 and p.12 lines
-264). Through these minor adaptations, we believe that we have more clearly relayed the
ssage that while migratory tip cells primarily rely on glycolysis, the latter is also important in the
liferating stalk cells, which in addition to glycolysis also depend on fatty acid oxidation for dNTP
thesis (8). To further substantiate the pivotal role of glycolysis in tip cells for their functional
notype, future studies should employ novel state-of-the-art technologies, such as single-cell
A sequencing, as this transcriptomic tool has the power of uncovering cell-to-cell variation. This
also been suggested in our adapted manuscript (see p. 17, lines 387-389).
n line with the first comment, authors could briefly discuss whether the glutaminase 1 (GLS1)
asparagine synthetase (ASNS)-dependent endothelial cell metabolism could be more
minent in proliferating stalk cells than migratory tip cells.
PONSE: Similarly to the De Bock et al. study reporting that overexpression of PFKFB3 promotes a
over-stalk cell phenotype (7), the Huang et al. study demonstrated that GLS1 expression is
ical as well for ECs to obtain the tip cell position during vessel sprouting (GLS1KD ECs showed
11/17 3 RSOB-17-0219
reased tip cell contribution in vitro) (9). This was described in the initial manuscript on page 12
es 262-264). Interestingly, glutamine metabolism was shown to promote both EC migration and
liferation, suggesting that glutamine metabolism may be prominent in both migratory tip cells
proliferating stalk cells. State-of-the-art tools, as described above, have the ability to even
ther uncover the metabolic difference between tip and stalk cells.
ERENCES LIST:
Cantelmo AR, Conradi LC, Brajic A, Goveia J, Kalucka J, Pircher A, et al. Inhibition of the
colytic Activator PFKFB3 in Endothelium Induces Tumor Vessel Normalization, Impairs
tastasis, and Improves Chemotherapy. Cancer Cell. 2016;30(6):968-85.
Boeckel JN, Derlet A, Glaser SF, Luczak A, Lucas T, Heumuller AW, et al. JMJD8 Regulates
iogenic Sprouting and Cellular Metabolism by Interacting With Pyruvate Kinase M2 in
othelial Cells. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2016;36(7):1425-33.
Caruso P, Dunmore BJ, Schlosser K, Schoors S, Dos Santos CC, Perez-Iratxeta C, et al.
ntification of miR-124 as a Major Regulator of Enhanced Endothelial Cell Glycolysis in
monary Arterial Hypertension via PTBP1 and PKM2. Circulation. 2017.
Weinberger R, Appel B, Stein A, Metz Y, Neheman A, Barak M. The pyruvate kinase
enzyme M2 (Tu M2-PK) as a tumour marker for renal cell carcinoma. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl).
7;16(4):333-7.
Li L, Zhang Y, Qiao J, Yang JJ, Liu ZR. Pyruvate kinase M2 in blood circulation facilitates
or growth by promoting angiogenesis. J Biol Chem. 2014;289(37):25812-21.
Zhang Y, Li L, Liu Y, Liu ZR. PKM2 released by neutrophils at wound site facilitates early
und healing by promoting angiogenesis. Wound Repair Regen. 2016;24(2):328-36.
De Bock K, Georgiadou M, Schoors S, Kuchnio A, Wong BW, Cantelmo AR, et al. Role of
FB3-driven glycolysis in vessel sprouting. Cell. 2013;154(3):651-63.
Schoors S, Bruning U, Missiaen R, Queiroz KC, Borgers G, Elia I, et al. Fatty acid carbon is
ential for dNTP synthesis in endothelial cells. Nature. 2015;520(7546):192-7.
Huang H, Vandekeere S, Kalucka J, Bierhansl L, Zecchin A, Bruning U, et al. Role of
tamine and interlinked asparagine metabolism in vessel formation. EMBO J. 2017.
Open Biology
