Epigenetic inactivation of tumour suppressor coding and
non-coding genes in human cancer: an update
Pere Llinàs-Arias and Manel Esteller
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170152.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170152
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0152.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
The revision "Epigenetic Inactivation of Coding and Noncoding Tumour Suppressor Genes in
Human Cancer: An Update" gives a comprehensive overview of the contribution of aberrantly
methylated genes to the different hallmarks of cancer. The manuscript is well written and is easy
to read. Furthermore, the approach of the paper is highly original as it dissects each hallmark of
cancer separately. I believe this paper will be interesting for a broad readership. I think it would
be important to mention (maybe in the abstract) that the paper focuses mainly on DNA
methylation rather than on more general epigenetic alterations. In addition, it would be useful to
mention that p16 and ARF are both encoded from the same genetic locus. Also, I wasn´t able to
find Figure 1. Finally, there are multiple typos throughout the paper. Careful proofreading is
highly recommended. Other than that, the review is suitable for publication in Open Biology and
is likely to have a very positive impact.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
The review by Llinas-Arias and Manel Esteller is on the timely topic of epigenetic inactivation of
coding and non-codingRANs and is well written. Dr. Esteller has a long history of major
achievements in the field of epigenetics and therefore has the authority to present the state of the
art of the field. The figure and the tables are useful for the understanding of the text.I would
recommend the addition of a table with the definitions of the categories of non-codingRNAs that
are described in the review for the readers that are not used with the topic of non-codingRNAs.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0152)
24-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Esteller,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0152 entitled "Epigenetic
Inactivation of Coding and Noncoding Tumour Suppressor Genes in Human Cancer: An Update"
has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have
recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore,
we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the final "Main Document".
4
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170152)
See Appendix A.
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0152.R1)
02-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Esteller
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Epigenetic Inactivation of Coding
and Noncoding Tumour Suppressor Genes in Human Cancer: An Update" has been accepted by
the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received,
we may publish the paper as it stands.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Professor David Glover
Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge
Editor-in-chief
Open Biology
Dear Open Biology team
Many thanks for the positive and useful comments of our manuscript
"Epigenetic Inactivation of Coding and Noncoding Tumour Suppressor Genes in
Human Cancer: An Update" (Manuscript RSOB-17-0152) and the acceptance for
publication in Open Biology, pending minor revisions.
We have addressed the suggestions of the referees and we believe that we
fulfill all their requests in this revised version. Please be so kind to find also attached a
detailed explanation of the included revisions.
Cordially,
Manel Esteller
Director, Cancer Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC),
Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL),
3rd Floor, Hospital Duran i Reynals, Av.Gran Via de L'Hospitalet 199 – 203,
08908 L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
Telephone: 34-93-2607253 / 34-93-2607140 E-mail: mesteller@idibell.cat
ICREA Research Professor
Genetics Professor, School of Medicine, University of Barcelona
Referee #1 (Comments to the Author):
“The revision "Epigenetic Inactivation of Coding and Noncoding Tumour Suppressor
Genes in Human Cancer: An Update" gives a comprehensive overview of the
contribution of aberrantly methylated genes to the different hallmarks of cancer. The
manuscript is well written and is easy to read. Furthermore, the approach of the paper
is highly original as it dissects each hallmark of cancer separately. I believe this paper
will be interesting for a broad readership.”
We thank the Reviewer for his/her positive comments and for supporting the
publication of the article.
We have addressed his/her comments as it follows:
“I think it would be important to mention (maybe in the abstract) that the paper focuses
mainly on DNA methylation rather than on more general epigenetic alterations.”
We thank the Reviewer for the insightful comment. We have addressed this suggestion
by modifying the abstract as it follows:
We will briefly describe these pathways, focusing especially on those genes whose
epigenetic inactivation through promoter hypermethylation has been recently
described, as well as on those that are well established as being epigenetically
silenced in cancer.
“In addition, it would be useful to mention that p16 and ARF are both encoded from the
same genetic locus.”
We thank the Reviewer for indicating this point. We have now included this information
in the following manner:
p16INK4A/CDKN2A downregulation is produced by promoter hypermethylation, but it can
also be due to HDAC activity [23]. It is interesting to highlight that p16 shares its
locus with p14/ARF, another tumour suppressor gene which is also
epigenetically disregualted.
“Also, I wasn´t able to find Figure 1”.
We are so sorry about that. Figure 1 shows the different epigenetic mechanisms based
on covalent modifications. We will ensure its inclusion on the next version.
“Finally, there are multiple typos throughout the paper. Careful proofreading is highly
recommended.Other than that, the review is suitable for publication in Open Biology
and is likely to have a very positive impact.”
Thanks for your comment. We have deeply revised the manuscript and we have
modified some typos.
Referee #2 (Comments to the Author):
“The review by Llinàs-Arias and Manel Esteller is on the timely topic of epigenetic
inactivation of coding and non-codingRANs and is well written. Dr. Esteller has a long
history of major achievements in the field of epigenetics and therefore has the authority
to present the state of the art of the field. The figure and the tables are useful for the
understanding of the text.”
We thank the Reviewer for his/her positive input and comments and the support for the
publication of the article.
We have addressed his/her suggestion in the following manner:
“I would recommend the addition of a table with the definitions of the categories of non-
codingRNAs that are described in the review for the readers that are not used with the
topic of non-codingRNAs.”
We thank the Reviewer for indicating this point. Although numerous non-coding RNAs
appear in the review, most of them are microRNAs. Therefore, it has been decided to
include microRNA definition on the section 2. The text includes the following
paragraph:
ncRNAs participate in gene expression regulation by several forms. They can activate
gene expression by forming DNA-RNA complex, such as R-loops, but more often they
interfere in mRNA translation blocking ribosome binding or promoting mRNA
degradation [15]. This review includes different microRNAs that are either
involved on epigenetic inactivation of their target genes or they undergo an
epigenetic repression, mainly mediated by DNA methylation. MicroRNAs are
defined as small RNA molecules (around 20-24 bases after its processing) that
may downregulate mRNA translation through different mechanisms, including
mRNA degradation and compromising the efficiency of translation into the
ribosomes.
We thank the Editor and the Reviewers for their great comments regarding the interest
of our manuscript and their very helpful remarks and suggestions. I enclose the revised
version of the manuscript with the hope that it will prove fully acceptable.
Sincerely,
With my best regards,
Manel Esteller, M.D., Ph.D.
Director, Cancer Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC),
Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL),
3rd Floor, Hospital Duran i Reynals, Av.Gran Via de L'Hospitalet 199 – 203,
08908 L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
Telephone: 34-93-2607253 / 34-93-2607140 E-mail: mesteller@idibell.cat
ICREA Research Professor
Genetics Professor, School of Medicine, University of Barcelona
Open Biology
