Glareosin: a novel sexually dimorphic urinary lipocalin in
the bank vole, Myodes glareolus
Grace M. Loxley, Jennifer Unsworth, Michael J. Turton, Alexandra Jebb, Kathryn S. Lilley,
Deborah M. Simpson, Daniel J. Rigden, Jane L. Hurst and Robert J. Beynon
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170135.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170135
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 July 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0135.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Tristram Wyatt)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
The authors present thorough and persuasive evidence that a newly found lipocalin protein is
likely to be a male sexual signal in this species of vole. The authors helpfully explain (p16) why it
had been missed in previous studies.
Small points:
1. p5 Could map references be added for each of the locations that the wild voles were
caught? (to aid future studies)
2. Figure 1b: What is the vertical line in the breeding season males gels ? [is this simply a
convention I’m not aware of as I am not a protein chemist]
3. p19, Line 11. Do Muridae generally have polymorphic MUPs or is this more a feature of
Mus musculus?
Very minor:
Could the authors add titles for papers
Line numbers would have been helpful – surprised not added by the MS-submission software if
not by the authors.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
3
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
Lipocalins play a major role in intraspecific communcation. Research on olfactory communication
in house mice has revealed astonishing details over the last decade on chemosignalling of a set of
specific members of the lipocalin protein family, the Major Urinary Proteins (MUP). These
proteins clearly have evolved in the context of conveying detailed information on various traits of
the sender to a receiver. Besides in house mice, rather little is known about lipocalin function in
other rodents. Such information, however, is urgently needed to allow for an understanding of
the evolutionary history (and adaptive function) of lipocalin chemosignalling. Here, the authors
present a novel lipocalin from bank voles (Myotes glareolus), a small rodent from the family
Arvicolidae, close relatives of the Muridae, the old world rats and mice) which they suggest to
name "glareosin". The manuscript presents very nice and detailed information on the behavioral
context of glareosin excretion in bank voles (it is only expressed at high level by adult males,
during the breeding season), on its chemistry (including mass analysis, peptide sequences, amino
acid sequences, three-dimensional structure), as well as (and very interesting though) on its
"phylogeny" within the phylogenetic tree of the lipocalin family (known so far). The data suggest
that glareosin differs from the MUPs in house mice and belongs to another group of lipocalins,
the odorant binding proteins (OBPs). Those novel and very interesting results will allow
fundamental insights into the mechanisms of the evolution of chemosignalling in rodents (and
most probably also in other mammals).Minor comment: I do not know whether this has been
done by purpose (?) but all references lack either information on the journal or book chapter,
respectively, where they have been published.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0135)
24-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Beynon,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0135 entitled "Glareosin: a novel
sexually dimorphic urinary lipocalin in the bank vole, Myodes glareolus" has been accepted by the
Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also
suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the
reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
5
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Board Member's comments:
Please add a few clarifying words in response to reviewer 1's three 'small points'. Both reviewers
point out that the journal titles are missing in the reference list.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0135.R1)
27-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Beynon,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Glareosin: a novel sexually
dimorphic urinary lipocalin in the bank vole, Myodes glareolus" has been accepted by the Editor
for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. The Production team have been instructed on including the dedication and this
can be viewed during the proof stage. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail
contact during this period.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Open Biology
