Multiple interactions are involved in a highly specific
association of the Mod(mdg4)-67.2 isoform with the Su(Hw)
sites in Drosophila
Larisa Melnikova, Margarita Kostyuchenko, Varvara Molodina, Alexander Parshikov, Pavel
Georgiev and Anton Golovnin
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170150.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170150
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0150.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
No
b) Summary
No
c) Introduction
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
The authors uses a combination of genetics, molecular biology, and cytology of polytene
chromosomes to probe the functional interactions of three proteins (Su(Hw), Mod(mdg4), CP190)
that are part of the Su(Hw) insulator complex. The main conclusion regarding this complex is
nicely summarized in the last sentence of the manuscript: “Deletion of a single domain involved
in the protein–protein interactions in either the Su(Hw) or the Mod(mdg4)-67.2 only partially
disturbs its formation, indicating that the stability of the complex is ensured by the
multiplicity/redundancy of such interactions.” I find the data supporting this conclusion to be
solid, however a number of issues should be addressed.
The genetic and molecular interactions among the proteins being studied are quite complicated.
Unfortunately, the text is not written in the clearest way, leading to some difficulty in sifting
through the data. I suggest that the authors develop a detailed diagram of their working model
for how Su(Hw) Mod(mdg4) and CP190 interact at different chromosomal locations. Such a
figure can be used both for guiding the reader through the experiments and results, and for
summing up the overall findings of the manuscript.
Along these lines, it would be helpful to indicate the location of the u1 and T6 truncation alleles
of Mod in the diagram of Figure 2A.
An important experimental consideration is that the immunoprecipitations lack a negative
control. I did not see either the use of a non-specific antibody or the analysis of a lysate that was
not expressed the epitope tagged protein being interrogated. Without such controls one cannot
discern the level of nonspecific binding in the IPs.
Throughout the manuscript the ChIP analysis would benefit from calculating and reporting P
values for those comparisons that are deemed to be affected by the different genotypes begin
analysis.
Page 8 that authors state: Hw). “In su(Hw)– pupae, we still observed residual Su(Hw) binding to
strong insulator sites (50A, 62D)”. Is that residual maternal binding, or background? This should
be clarified because it’s confusing in light of the obseravation in Fig. S1A that there is apparently
no Su(Hw) protein in the mutants.
For Figure 4B representative figures are essential for the author to assess the data. The numbers
provided are not meaningful in isolation.
Minor
Page 3 line 8 typo: meiosis not meosis
3
When describing Fig. 3A (and any others involving a transgene) the authors should specify in the
text (not just the figure legend) whether the experiment is being performed in the presence of
endogenous protein or in a null mutant background.
The manuscript would benefit from editing by a native English speaker
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Bruce McKee)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
See Appendix A
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0150)
03-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Golovnin
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0150 entitled "Multiple interactions
are involved in a highly specific association of the Mod(mdg4)-67.2 isoform with the Su(Hw)
sites in Drosophila" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The
reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your
4
manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
5
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170150)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOB-17-0150.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Bruce Mckee)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
6
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_3
The authors have successfully addressed my concerns about the original manuscript. The revised
manuscript is well-written and the conclusions are fully documented. The manuscript makes an
important contribution to the chromatin insulator field.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
No
c) Introduction
No
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
7
Comments to the Author
label_comment_4
The authors should add a sentence to the abstract defining what an insulator is and how it's
thought to function to make it more accessible to a general audience. Ditto for the introduction
where a paragraph at the very beginning introducing the concepts of insulators would help a
non specialist rather than just delving right into the fly specific proteins.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0150.R1)
18-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Golovnin,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Multiple interactions are involved in
a highly specific association of the Mod(mdg4)-67.2 isoform with the Su(Hw) sites in Drosophila"
has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
If applicable, please find the referee comments below. No further changes are recommended.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office shortly.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
pendix A
nikova et al. Open Biology
paper provides new evidence concerning how the Su(Hw) and Mod(mdg4)67.2 proteins interact in
blishing functional gypsy insulators. The major finding is that deleting the previously identified
d(mdg4) interacting domain in the Su(Hw) C-terminal region has little effect on recruitment of
d(mdg4), and that this is largely explained by a second Mod(mdg4)-interacting domain in the Su(Hw)
erminus. The evidence for this important result is strong, including extensive Y2H and GST pull-down
a as well as evidence both from S2 cells and from in vivo genetic models. The gypsy insulator was the
identified insulator and remains the best-understood example of this important class of chromatin
ains, so progress in understanding how the gypsy insulator complex is constituted constitutes a
ificant advance in the insulator field. The authors also provide a thorough dissection of interaction
ains in Mod(mdg4) and show that the situation is quite complex, involving multiple domains that
ract in complex ways. An interesting surprise is the relatively minor role of the FLYWCH domain,
ticularly in the vitro tests. The images are high-quality and figures are well-constructed. For the
st part, the manuscript is well-written. Overall, this is an excellent manuscript describing novel and
ortant results.
have a few concerns, described below. These are all relatively minor but should be addressed to
rove the manuscript.
, first full paragraph – the discussion of Su(Hw) binding sites is somewhat confusing because it is not
r what constitutes a genomic binding site and how this relates to the 12 zinc fingers of Su(Hw). For
benefit of readers not in the gypsy insulator field, the authors should provide as clear a definition of
(Hw) genomic binding site as is possible.
, next paragraph – this discussion is also confusing. The first sentence mentions four proteins that
required for Su(Hw) insulator activity: Su(Hw) itself, CP190, Mod(mdg4) and Ey2/Sus1. Then the rest
he paragraph discusses three types of Su(Hw) sites: SBS-O (Su(Hw) only), SBS-C (Su-Hw + CP190) and
-CM. The latter class is said to involve binding of all “three” proteins. But which three? Does M
d for Mod(mdg4). If so, what about Ey2/Sus1? Where does it come into the picture? As this is the
mention of this protein, its role needs additional explanation. Or, better yet, just delete the
ntion of Ey2/Sus1 since it does not play any role in the experiments and, as far as I could tell, is never
ntioned again.
ults
: It is not clear how the authors determined that the residual polytene binding of Su(Hw) protein in
r null genotype –su(Hw)[ v/e04061] – is due to maternally loaded Su(Hw) protein. No specific
ence is provided. There would appear to be at least two plausible alternative explanations: the null genotype
t really completely null or the Su(Hw) antibody cross-reacts with another protein that is expressed in salivary
ds. Residual protein expression in this genotype certainly seems possible - one allele is a partial deletion that
oves just part of the NT coding sequence and extends several Kb to the 5’ side and the other allele is a
yBac insertion near the start codon. In fact, to my eye, there is a faint band in the null lane in Fig. S1 that runs
ut even with the main band in the wild-type lane. Even if there were no signal at all, however, a Western
ysis of adult proteins would not rule out either of the alternative explanations above which deal with
ession in a specific larval tissue. There may be evidence in previous publications to show that the null
otype is really, truly null and that their antibody is completely specific, but I poked around in several of the
renced papers and couldn’t find it. I don’t think this issue has a substantial impact on the main findings in the
er. Nevertheless, the evidence on these points should be at least summarized clearly.
he Mod(mdg4) panel in Su(Hw)- in Fig. 1A, I see highly reduced overall expression but residual strong
ning of a few sites, pretty similar to how Su(Hw) staining looks in this genotype, which is quite
erent from how the authors describe the situation on p. 7-8. Are Mod(mdg4) and Su(Hw) localizing
he same sites? That would certainly be consistent with the results from Fig. 1B.
eneral issue with Su(Hw)-Mod(mdg4) interaction data in Fig. 2 and elsewhere is the role of the C-
minal suppression domain of Su(Hw). It is present only in the wild-type protein where it reduces
raction with Mod(mdg4). It is absent in all of the domain-specific interaction pairs shown in the
res. This leaves open the question of what would happen with these interactions if the suppressor
ain was present. It’s an important question because of course this domain is present in wild-type so
possible that some of the discovered interactions might be physiologically irrelevant or at least
ed due to suppression by this domain. This domain is only mentioned in the figure 2 legend. There
uld be some discussion of its role in the text. If the caveat I proposed can’t be ruled out, it should be
nowledged.
1. Legend. Title seems wordy – could delete “Results of experiments to evaluate”. Same comment
lies to several of the other figure legends. Also “regions” should probably be “region” as there is
y one C-terminally deleted allele in Fig. 1 and so only one region is being tested.
Appendix B
label_version_3
RSOB-17-0150
Dear Editor,
Thank you for evaluation of our manuscript "Multiple interactions are involved in a highly
specific association of the Mod(mdg4)-67.2 isoform with the Su(Hw) sites in Drosophila". We
are grateful to the Reviewers for their constructive and helpful comments, which are taken into
account in the revised version of the manuscript.
Yours sincerely,
Anton Golovnin
Point-by-point replies:
Referee 1:
The genetic and molecular interactions among the proteins being studied are quite
complicated. Unfortunately, the text is not written in the clearest way, leading to some
difficulty in sifting through the data. I suggest that the authors develop a detailed diagram
of their working model for how Su(Hw) Mod(mdg4) and CP190 interact at different
chromosomal locations. Such a figure can be used both for guiding the reader through the
experiments and results, and for summing up the overall findings of the manuscript.
We thank Reviewer for the suggestion. We inserted in MS the figure describing interactions
between the studied proteins.
Along these lines, it would be helpful to indicate the location of the u1 and T6 truncation
alleles of Mod in the diagram of Figure 2A.
We thank Reviewer for the suggestion. We indicated the location of the mod(mdg4)u1 and T6
truncation alleles in Figure 2A
An important experimental consideration is that the immunoprecipitations lack a negative
control. I did not see either the use of a non-specific antibody or the analysis of a lysate that
was not expressed the epitope tagged protein being interrogated. Without such controls one
cannot discern the level of nonspecific binding in the IPs.
In these experiments we immunopricipitated the FLAG tagged proteins and used commercial
agarose-attached FLAG antibodies. In the lysate which did not express the FLAG epitope tagged
proteins and was probed with such FLAG-attached agarose did not show any significant
nonspecific binding.
Throughout the manuscript the ChIP analysis would benefit from calculating and
reporting P values for those comparisons that are deemed to be affected by the different
genotypes begin analysis.
We indicated the P values in the ChiP analysis.
Page 8 that authors state: Hw). “In su(Hw)– pupae, we still observed residual Su(Hw)
binding to strong insulator sites (50A, 62D)”. Is that residual maternal binding, or
background? This should be clarified because it’s confusing in light of the obseravation in
Fig. S1A that there is apparently no Su(Hw) protein in the mutants.
The Su(Hw) binding in the mutant su(Hw)e04061/ su(Hw)v background to the strong insulator sites
(50A and 62D) could be explained by the residual expression rather than the maternally loaded
protein. In Figure S1A (30 seconds of exposition) a faint band of the Su(Hw) protein could be
observed in the mutant Su(Hw) background. With a longer exposure (5 min) this band becames
more visible but at the same time an over-exposition of the normal proteins was observed. The
same results were described in Baxley et al. 2011 paper. In agreement with this, Referee 2 also
suggested that we observed a residual expression in mutant su(Hw)e04061/ su(Hw)v background.
For Figure 4B representative figures are essential for the author to assess the data. The
numbers provided are not meaningful in isolation.
We thank Reviewer for the suggestion and we have added photos of representative phenotypes in
addition to the numbers.
Minor:
Page 3 line 8 typo: meiosis not meosis
We corrected this mistake.
When describing Fig. 3A (and any others involving a transgene) the authors should specify
in the text (not just the figure legend) whether the experiment is being performed in the
presence of endogenous protein or in a null mutant background.
All experiments with the transgenic flies were performed in the null mutant background.
According to Reviewer’s request we have specified this in the text.
Referee 2:
p. 3, first full paragraph – the discussion of Su(Hw) binding sites is somewhat confusing
because it is not clear what constitutes a genomic binding site and how this relates to the 12
zinc fingers of Su(Hw). For the benefit of readers not in the gypsy insulator field, the
authors should provide as clear a definition of a Su(Hw) genomic binding site as is possible.
We thank Reviewer for the suggestion and we have added a detailed description of the Su(Hw)
binding sites to make it clearer for the reader. We have emphasized that the zinc-fingers
recognize the long DNA binding motif. We also have changed the order of the sentences and
emphasized that the gypsy insulator consisting of 12 Su(Hw) binding sites is unique in this
respect.
p. 3, next paragraph – this discussion is also confusing. The first sentence mentions four
proteins that are required for Su(Hw) insulator activity: Su(Hw) itself, CP190, Mod(mdg4)
and Ey2/Sus1. Then the rest of the paragraph discusses three types of Su(Hw) sites: SBS-O
(Su(Hw) only), SBS-C (Su-Hw + CP190) and SBS-CM. The latter class is said to involve
binding of all “three” proteins. But which three? Does M stand for Mod(mdg4). If so, what
about Ey2/Sus1? Where does it come into the picture? As this is the first mention of this
protein, its role needs additional explanation. Or, better yet, just delete the mention of
Ey2/Sus1 since it does not play any role in the experiments and, as far as I could tell, is
never mentioned again.
We agree with the Reviewer's suggestion and have removed the mentioning of the Ey2/Sus1
protein from the introduction.
Results
p. 7: It is not clear how the authors determined that the residual polytene binding of
Su(Hw) protein in their null genotype –su(Hw)[ v/e04061] – is due to maternally loaded
Su(Hw) protein. No specific evidence is provided. There would appear to be at least two
plausible alternative explanations: the null genotype is not really completely null or the
Su(Hw) antibody cross-reacts with another protein that is expressed in salivary glands.
Residual protein expression in this genotype certainly seems possible – one allele is a
partial deletion that removes just part of the NT coding sequence and extends several Kb to
the 5’ side and the other allele is a PiggyBac insertion near the start codon. In fact, to my
eye, there is a faint band in the null lane in Fig. S1 that runs about even with the main band
in the wild-type lane. Even if there were no signal at all, however, a Western analysis of
adult proteins would not rule out either of the alternative explanations above which deal
with expression in a specific larval tissue. There may be evidence in previous publications
to show that the null genotype is really, truly null and that their antibody is completely
specific, but I poked around in several of the referenced papers and couldn’t find it. I don’t
think this issue has a substantial impact on the main findings in the paper. Nevertheless,
the evidence on these points should be at least summarized clearly.
We agree that it is possible that the su(Hw)e04061 allele displayed a residual protein expression.
Thus, this expression might provide an alternative explanation for the binding of Su(Hw) to the
strong sites. It seems likely that Su(Hw) antibodies are specific since we have also observed
Mod(mdg4)-67.2 at such sites, while Mod(mdg4)-67.2 binds only to the Su(Hw) protein. We
have changed the text according this note.
In the Mod(mdg4) panel in Su(Hw)- in Fig. 1A, I see highly reduced overall expression but
residual strong staining of a few sites, pretty similar to how Su(Hw) staining looks in this
genotype, which is quite different from how the authors describe the situation on p. 7-8.
Are Mod(mdg4) and Su(Hw) localizing to the same sites? That would certainly be
consistent with the results from Fig. 1B.
Reviewer is absolutely right, Mod(mdg4)-67.2 and Su(Hw) co-localized at the same sites,
Mod(mdg4)-67.2 binds only to the Su(Hw) protein and Mod(mdg4) localization depends on the
Su(Hw) protein (Soshnev et al. 2012, Gdula et al. 1996) . Accordingly, the Fig. 1A Mod(mdg4)-
67.2 and CP190 are co-localized in the residual bands visualized on the polytene chromosomes
of the su(Hw)e04061/ su(Hw)v line. Moreover, in the pupae ChIP we observed co-binding of
Mod(mdg4), C190, and Su(Hw) to the strong 62D and 50A sites in the su(Hw)e04061/ su(Hw)v
line.
That’s why a reduction of Su(Hw) binding correspondingly reduces the Mod(mdg4) protein
binding.
A general issue with Su(Hw)-Mod(mdg4) interaction data in Fig. 2 and elsewhere is the role
of the Cterminal suppression domain of Su(Hw). It is present only in the wild-type protein
where it reduces interaction with Mod(mdg4). It is absent in all of the domain-specific
interaction pairs shown in the figures. This leaves open the question of what would happen
with these interactions if the suppressor domain was present. It’s an important question
because of course this domain is present in wild-type so it’s possible that some of the
discovered interactions might be physiologically irrelevant or at least muted due to
suppression by this domain. This domain is only mentioned in the figure 2 legend. There
should be some discussion of its role in the text. If the caveat I proposed can’t be ruled out,
it should be acknowledged.
The Y2H method is based on an activation of the yeast promoters by the GAL4 activator domain
that is brought to the promoter vicinity by an interaction between the tested proteins. This
approach has one limitation: domains in the tested proteins can negatively affect the transcription
of the yeast reporter genes. The truncated form of the Su(Hw) protein was used only in the two-
hybrid experiments where the C-terminal domain repressed the nearby target promoter. In all in
vivo experiments where the two-hybrid results were confirmed, we used the full length Su(Hw)
protein. Moreover, in our GST Pull Down experiments (Figure 2C) we demonstrated that the C-
terminal domain which was removed in the Y2H experiments didn’t interacts with the
Mod(mdg4)-67.2 protein. Thus, the influence/effect of the C terminal Su(Hw) domain on the
tested interactions is minimal.
Fig. 1. Legend. Title seems wordy – could delete “Results of experiments to evaluate”.
Same comment applies to several of the other figure legends. Also “regions” should
probably be “region” as there is only one C-terminally deleted allele in Fig. 1 and so only
one region is being tested
We thank Reviewer for the suggestion and have improved figure legends according to the
suggestion
Open Biology
