Reproducibility of academic preclinical translational
research: lessons from the development of Hedgehog
pathway inhibitors to treat cancer
Tom Curran
Article citation details
Open Biol. 8: 180098.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.180098
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 May 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 July 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-18-0098.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
The review „Reproducibility of academic pre-clinical translational research: lessons from the
development of Hedgehog pathway inhibitors to treat cancer” precisely and accurately elucidates
the development of HH pathway inhibitors. It is a critical summary of the (pre-clinical
translational) research during the last 20 years that has been done on mouse models and cell lines
and critically specifies the limitations of the respective experiments. It also highlights of how the
hope and the expectations on HH pathway inhibitors have biased the interpretation of the
respective results.
The review is very well written and easy to follow. In my opinion it will be of high interest not
only for researchers who work in the field of HH research, but also for all other researches who
are involved in preclinical investigations of drugs for treatment of cancer.
A minor suggestion: it would be easier to follow, if the author exchanges Figs 3 and 4. In
addition, in the current Fig.4 the “unknown” HH receptor should be presented in a different
color than the PTCH receptor.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0098.R0)
05-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Curran,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-18-0098 entitled "Reproducibility of
academic pre-clinical translational research: lessons from the development of Hedgehog pathway
inhibitors to treat cancer" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The
reviewer has recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your
manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer's comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
3
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee.
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material (if applicable): this should be contained in a separate file
from the main text and meet our ESM criteria (see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question5). All supplementary materials
accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final form. They will be published
alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on
figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so that
the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
4
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Reviewer's Comments to Author:
Referee:
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The review „Reproducibility of academic pre-clinical translational research: lessons from the
development of Hedgehog pathway inhibitors to treat cancer” precisely and accurately elucidates
the development of HH pathway inhibitors. It is a critical summary of the (pre-clinical
translational) research during the last 20 years that has been done on mouse models and cell lines
and critically specifies the limitations of the respective experiments. It also highlights of how the
hope and the expectations on HH pathway inhibitors have biased the interpretation of the
respective results.
The review is very well written and easy to follow. In my opinion it will be of high interest not
only for researchers who work in the field of HH research, but also for all other researches who
are involved in preclinical investigations of drugs for treatment of cancer.
A minor suggestion: it would be easier to follow, if the author exchanges Figs 3 and 4. In
addition, in the current Fig.4 the “unknown” HH receptor should be presented in a different
color than the PTCH receptor.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-18-0098.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0098.R1)
06-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Curran
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Reproducibility of academic pre-
5
clinical translational research: lessons from the development of Hedgehog pathway inhibitors to
treat cancer" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Regarding the artwork, we are in agreement that this falls under the fair use clause since it won't
be used for commercial purposes and so it is fine to include the illustrations.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Response to Referees
Reviewer's Comments to Author:
Referee:
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The review „Reproducibility of academic pre-clinical translational
research: lessons from the development of Hedgehog pathway
inhibitors to treat cancer” precisely and accurately elucidates the
development of HH pathway inhibitors. It is a critical summary of
the (pre-clinical translational) research during the last 20 years that
has been done on mouse models and cell lines and critically
specifies the limitations of the respective experiments. It also
highlights of how the hope and the expectations on HH pathway
inhibitors have biased the interpretation of the respective results.
The review is very well written and easy to follow. In my opinion it
will be of high interest not only for researchers who work in the
field of HH research, but also for all other researches who are
involved in preclinical investigations of drugs for treatment of
cancer.
A minor suggestion: it would be easier to follow, if the author
exchanges Figs 3 and 4. In addition, in the current Fig.4 the
“unknown” HH receptor should be presented in a different color
than the PTCH receptor.
I thank the reviewer for the comments and suggestions.
Specific responses
1 Exchange Figures 3 and 4. The reviewer is correct. Due to an edit
during manuscript preparation an earlier reference to the
previous figure 3 was removed and as a consequence figures 3
and 4 were out of place. This has been corrected as suggested.
2 “the current Fig.4 the “unknown” HH receptor should be
presented in a different color than the PTCH receptor.” Also
agreed- the color has been changed to avoid confusion with
PTCH1.
Open Biology
