Shape, form, function and Leishmania pathogenicity: from
textbook descriptions to biological understanding
Jack Sunter and Keith Gull
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170165.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170165
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 4 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0165.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
Shape, form, function and Leishmania pathogenicity: from textbook descriptions to biological
understanding by Jack Sunter and Keith Gull.
This is a narrative review of "form and function" in Leishmaniasis coming from the foremost lab
in this area. It is very well written - nice clear descriptions and justifications of some aspects of
their current thinking which is likely to be read and well received by those interested in this area.
It's strength lies in the pitching of new ideas but it's weakness is that it is primarily descriptive,
containing quite a lot of unsubtended speculation (e.g. flagellar sensing of macrophage health)
and is fairly uncritical of the literature base that it summarizes using it for inspiration rather than
relying on its accuracy. It does not attempt to undertake or report any specific novel data
syntheses.
The title speaks directly to both morphology and pathogenicity and I was hoping that they would
use the opportunity to explore in detail the evidence that leishmanial morphology has any role in
pathogenesis. Clearly the considerable variation in leishmanial pathology - from apathogenic
through a spectrum of tropism and severity to lethal and disfiguring diseases amongst
apparently morphologically indistinguishable lineages suggests that it may actually be that no
such link exists. Equally, however, infective stages have different morphologies and motility to
non-infective ones which argues that that form is important to niche adaptation. Many genes
associated with motility and morphogenesis have now been identified (and could be usefully
tabulated in a review like this) and for all of these it is fairly easy to evaluate whether they are
evolving in the leishmania genus (and sub genuses?) under selective pressure and correlate this
with host and vector etc. At any rate, some sort of synthesis of the genomic and functional
genomic data relating to morphogenesis with what is contained in this review already would in
my opinion take this from being a very interesting review to being an exceptional and
tremendously useful review, so this is my main suggestion.
Note
I found figure 2 a bit inaccessible when considering the sources of the data reported. The legends
(unnecessarily I think) cite methods on cell shrinkage during processing and not the source of the
populations which is much more germaine to their interpretation. There is a lot of info in quite a
complex composite that one would need to go back to source to interpret them and I think the
figure might be usefully modified to illustrate the key narrative points and ensure that the review
self contained. Also this composite, if simplified may be a good opportunity to showcase actual
images of parasites stages if available.
Minor notes I think protozoal is misused where protozoan is meant in most cases - (assuming we
continue to employ protozoa as a useful classification at all). i.e.The protozoal disease -
leishmaniasis (or protozoal infection - leishmanosis)The protozoan parasite - Leishmania major
3
ln98 "the traverse through the sandfly digestive tract" suggests to me it is remaining in the lumen
rather than penetrating tissue which is not the authors intent I think.lns 100-103 add little and
could be cut.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
Manuscript (RSOB-17-0165)
Shape, form, function and Leishmania pathogenicity: from textbook descriptions to biological
understanding
General comments
This is generally a well written review on the shape, form, function and Leishmania
pathogenicity. It was particularly useful to highlight the issue of using morphological parameters
to determine cell types and the need for cell markers. I also felt this manuscript would be of more
value to a general audience. However, it was somewhat difficult to read in its current form as the
reference numbers in the text did not match the reference numbers in the bibliography suggesting
this was not thoroughly checked before submission.
Amendments
1. Leishmania shape and form:
a. Lines 37-39- ‘As seen with other parasites such as Plasmodium and trypanosomes some
of these developmental forms are proliferative whereas others are quiescent and pre-adapted for
transmission to the next host [1].’ Ref 1 I could not get full access to this reference to check it was
appropriate but I would like other references to be added here and include references that
support the statement about Plasmodium and trypanosomes.
4
b. Line 43 remove ‘a’.
c. References 4, 5, 6 and 7 are T. brucei references to include these you need to be clear
these are not Leishmania references.
2. Defining diversity: different species, different diseases, different cells in the vector and
host:
a. Line 85- Reference 12 is not correct here. In the bibliography ref 12 is Gluenz et al 2010
Beyond 9+0: noncanonical axoneme structures characterize sensory cilia from protists to humans.
FASEB J. Off. Publ. Fed. Am. Soc. Exp. Biol. 24, 3117–3121.
b. Line 92- add basal body to Figure 1A
c. Line 95- ref 13 & 14 in the text I think should be ref 12 & 13
d. Line 98- ref 15 in the text should be ref 14
3. Promastigote to amastigote transition:
a. Ref 16-18 in text should 15-17, ref 19 should be 18, ref 20-22 should be 19-21, this is all the
way through the manuscript so please correct references
b. Line 176-182- be clear you are talking about African trypanosomes ref 4.
c. Line 230- see ref Doehl et al 2017 Nat Comm 8 (1) 57
4. Figure legends:
a. Figure 1B- I would like more explanation in the legend
5. References:
a. As stated above these all need to be checked and corrected so ref number in text matches
the actual reference
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0165)
25-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Sunter,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0165 entitled "Shape, form, function
and Leishmania pathogenicity: from textbook descriptions to biological understanding" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended
publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you
to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
5
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170165)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0165.R1)
04-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Sunter
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Shape, form, function and
Leishmania pathogenicity: from textbook descriptions to biological understanding" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received,
we may publish the paper as it stands.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
We were impressed by the speed and clarity of the review of our manuscript and were happy with
the positive comments that both reviewers had. We found the comments they had very useful and
have used them to extend and improve the manuscript.
Please find attached the revised manuscript and figures and our response to the reviewers. We have
addressed each point raised by the reviewers and provided our responses to the reviewers in the
blue text. Given the positive response from the reviewers and the changes we have made to the
manuscript we hope that this improved manuscript is now acceptable for publication.
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Shape, form, function and Leishmania pathogenicity: from textbook descriptions to biological
understanding by Jack Sunter and Keith Gull.
This is a narrative review of "form and function" in Leishmaniasis coming from the foremost lab in
this area. It is very well written - nice clear descriptions and justifications of some aspects of their
current thinking which is likely to be read and well received by those interested in this area. Its
strength lies in the pitching of new ideas but it's weakness is that it is primarily descriptive,
containing quite a lot of unsubtended speculation (e.g. flagellar sensing of macrophage health) and
is fairly uncritical of the literature base that it summarizes using it for inspiration rather than relying
on its accuracy. It does not attempt to undertake or report any specific novel data syntheses.
We thank the reviewer for their comments on the manuscript and have found their input useful in
improving the manuscript. We have added extra detail at key points throughout the manuscript to
take this work beyond the descriptive and highlight important areas that have not been addressed to
date.
The title speaks directly to both morphology and pathogenicity and I was hoping that they would use
the opportunity to explore in detail the evidence that leishmanial morphology has any role in
pathogenesis. Clearly the considerable variation in leishmanial pathology - from apathogenic
through a spectrum of tropism and severity to lethal and disfiguring diseases amongst apparently
morphologically indistinguishable lineages suggests that it may actually be that no such link exists.
Equally, however, infective stages have different morphologies and motility to non-infective ones
which argues that that form is important to niche adaptation. Many genes associated with motility
and morphogenesis have now been identified (and could be usefully tabulated in a review like this)
and for all of these it is fairly easy to evaluate whether they are evolving in the leishmania genus
(and sub genuses?) under selective pressure and correlate this with host and vector etc. At any rate,
some sort of synthesis of the genomic and functional genomic data relating to morphogenesis with
what is contained in this review already would in my opinion take this from being a very interesting
review to being an exceptional and tremendously useful review, so this is my main suggestion.
We thank the reviewer for these useful comments, which highlight a key observation that these
morphologically similar amastigotes are able to cause a spectrum of disease pathology. We have
now expanded on this point and in doing so have improved the manuscript.
1) We have added further details and discussion about the morphology of amastigotes forms,
highlighting work that shows there are differences in size between amastigotes of different species
and that amastigotes of some species have a structural modification called a posterior invagination.
However, there appears not to be a simple link between these morphological differences and the
disease pathology.
2) On the reviewer’s suggestion we have generated a summary table of the various
morphological/motility mutants in Leishmania and have added this to the manuscript. This table
shows that there a number of morphological/motility mutants found; however, the mutants are
generally knockouts of well conserved proteins and these tend to have dramatic effect on the
morphology/motility of the cell. It therefore may be the case that the subtle modulations of protein
expression are more important for governing pathogenicity than the presence or absence of certain
proteins.
note
I found figure 2 a bit inaccessible when considering the sources of the data reported. The legends
(unnecessarily I think) cite methods on cell shrinkage during processing and not the source of the
populations which is much more germaine to their interpretation. There is a lot of info in quite a
complex composite that one would need to go back to source to interpret them and I think the
figure might be usefully modified to illustrate the key narrative points and ensure that the review
self contained. Also this composite, if simplified may be a good opportunity to showcase actual
images of parasites stages if available.
We have removed the citations from the legend as the reviewer suggested and have introduced
illustrations of the different promastigote morphologies to help the reader understand our
arguments. The figure legend has been expanded to include more information about the cells used
for the analysis in 2F/G and how this analysis was performed so that this review is now standalone.
We decided to retain 2F/G as we believe there are powerful illustrations of the problem of trying to
define cell types on morphology alone and will now be more accessible given the clearer and more
extensive legend.
minor notes
I think protozoal is misused where protozoan is meant in most cases - (assuming we continue to
employ protozoa as a useful classification at all). i.e.
The protozoal disease - leishmaniasis (or protozoal infection - leishmanosis)
The protozoan parasite - Leishmania major
We thank the reviewer for spotting this and have changed the text accordingly.
ln98 "the traverse through the sandfly digestive tract" suggests to me it is remaining in the lumen
rather than penetrating tissue which is not the authors intent I think.
This phrasing was intentional as current evidence shows that Leishmania parasites remain in the
digestive tract and do not penetrate through tissues as is found for Trypanosoma brucei in the tsetse
fly.
lns 100-103 add little and could be cut.
We thank the reviewer for this comment and have removed this paragraph.
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Manuscript (RSOB-17-0165)
Shape, form, function and Leishmania pathogenicity: from textbook descriptions to biological
understanding
General comments
This is generally a well written review on the shape, form, function and Leishmania pathogenicity. It
was particularly useful to highlight the issue of using morphological parameters to determine cell
types and the need for cell markers. I also felt this manuscript would be of more value to a general
audience. However, it was somewhat difficult to read in its current form as the reference numbers in
the text did not match the reference numbers in the bibliography suggesting this was not thoroughly
checked before submission.
We thank the reviewer for their positive comments about the manuscript and for also spotting the
referencing problem. We have now been through the manuscript after making the required changes
and have ensured that the references are now correct.
Amendments
1. Leishmania shape and form:
a. Lines 37-39- ‘As seen with other parasites such as Plasmodium and trypanosomes some of
these developmental forms are proliferative whereas others are quiescent and pre-adapted for
transmission to the next host [1].’ Ref 1 I could not get full access to this reference to check it was
appropriate but I would like other references to be added here and include references that support
the statement about Plasmodium and trypanosomes.
We have added extra references here to refer Leishmania, trypanosomes and Plasmodium.
b. Line 43 remove ‘a’.
We have removed ‘a’ from this sentence.
c. References 4, 5, 6 and 7 are T. brucei references to include these you need to be clear these are
not Leishmania references.
We have added an extra section into the introduction that acknowledges much of our basic
information of Leishmania cell form and function is derived from trypanosomes and have added a
caveat about the potential pitfalls this may cause.
2. Defining diversity: different species, different diseases, different cells in the vector and host:
a. Line 85- Reference 12 is not correct here. In the bibliography ref 12 is Gluenz et al 2010 Beyond
9+0: noncanonical axoneme structures characterize sensory cilia from protists to humans. FASEB J.
Off. Publ. Fed. Am. Soc. Exp. Biol. 24, 3117–3121.
We thank the reviewer for spotting this error and have double checked and corrected all references.
b. Line 92- add basal body to Figure 1A
We have added the basal body to the promastigote and amastigote cartoons in figure 1A.
c. Line 95- ref 13 & 14 in the text I think should be ref 12 & 13
We thank the reviewer for spotting this error and have double checked and corrected all references.
d. Line 98- ref 15 in the text should be ref 14
We thank the reviewer for spotting this error and have double checked and corrected all references.
3. Promastigote to amastigote transition:
a. Ref 16-18 in text should 15-17, ref 19 should be 18, ref 20-22 should be 19-21, this is all the way
through the manuscript so please correct references
We thank the reviewer for spotting this error and have double checked and corrected all references.
b. Line 176-182- be clear you are talking about African trypanosomes ref 4.
We thank the reviewer for spotting this error and again this sentence has fallen victim to the
referencing issue and is actual referring to the work done by Wheeler and Sunter on ‘Flagellar
pocket restructuring through the Leishmania life cycle involves a discrete flagellum attachment
zone’. We have now corrected this referencing error.
c. Line 230- see ref Doehl et al 2017 Nat Comm 8 (1) 57
We thank the reviewer from bringing this recent paper to our attention and have added the
reference to the manuscript and modified the text accordingly.
4. Figure legends:
a. Figure 1B- I would like more explanation in the legend
We have added more detail to the figure legend for 1B to clearly explain the life cycle.
5. References:
a. As stated above these all need to be checked and corrected so ref number in text matches the
actual reference
We thank the reviewer for spotting this error and have double checked and corrected all references.
Open Biology
