Cell polarity: having and making sense of direction—on the
evolutionary significance of the primary cilium/centrosome
organ in Metazoa
Michel Bornens
Article citation details
Open Biol. 8: 180052.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.180052
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 March 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 5 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-18-0052.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
This is a wonderful article that should be published in Open Biology with only minor revisions. It
is an excellent work of scholarship that examines a broad aspect of cellular evolution offering a
breadth of insight and widely acknowledging the very many historic contributions to this
complex field.
I have very few comments and those I have are directed at elements of the article that deal with
centrosome biology in Drosophila. First, it is not so much spindle asymmetry that plays a role in
directing germ cell formation by centrosomes in fly embryos but the centrosomes per se. This
was shown by the fly that centrosomes dissociated from the mitotic apparatus can trigger
formation of anucleate germ cells. (Raff and Glover Cell. 1989 May 19;57(4):611-9). Secondly, it
should be clearly stated that centrosomes are not totally dispensable in flies for the fidelity of cell
division and spindle orientation. The paper by Poulton and colleagues (Dev Cell. 2014 Sep
29;30(6):731-45. doi: 10.1016/j.devcel.2014.08.007.) shows that acentrosomal cells show cell
division abnormalities and cell death and the requirement for centrosomes in the mitotic
divisions of syncytial embryos and in male meiosis is demonstrated in Rodrgues Martins et al
(Cell Cycle. 2008 Jan 1;7(1):11-6. Epub 2007)
Finally, there are quite a lot of minor English problems in the text that cold be removed with a
careful professional edit. It would be a pity not to edit these because the article is of such high
quality that it is likely to be highly read and cited.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0052.R0)
08-May-2018
Dear Professor Bornens
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-18-0052 entitled "Cell Polarity: having
and making sense of direction on the evolutionary significance of the primary cilium/centrosome
organ in Metazoa" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer
has recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript.
Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
3
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
4
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Referee:
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a wonderful article that should be published in Open Biology with only minor revisions. It
is an excellent work of scholarship that examines a broad aspect of cellular evolution offering a
breadth of insight and widely acknowledging the very many historic contributions to this
complex field.
I have very few comments and those I have are directed at elements of the article that deal with
centrosome biology in Drosophila. First, it is not so much spindle asymmetry that plays a role in
directing germ cell formation by centrosomes in fly embryos but the centrosomes per se. This
was shown by the fly that centrosomes dissociated from the mitotic apparatus can trigger
formation of anucleate germ cells. (Raff and Glover Cell. 1989 May 19;57(4):611-9). Secondly, it
should be clearly stated that centrosomes are not totally dispensable in flies for the fidelity of cell
division and spindle orientation. The paper by Poulton and colleagues (Dev Cell. 2014 Sep
29;30(6):731-45. doi: 10.1016/j.devcel.2014.08.007.) shows that acentrosomal cells show cell
division abnormalities and cell death and the requirement for centrosomes in the mitotic
divisions of syncytial embryos and in male meiosis is demonstrated in Rodrgues Martins et al
(Cell Cycle. 2008 Jan 1;7(1):11-6. Epub 2007)
Finally, there are quite a lot of minor English problems in the text that cold be removed with a
careful professional edit. It would be a pity not to edit these because the article is of such high
quality that it is likely to be highly read and cited.
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-18-0052.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0052.R1)
05-Jul-2018
Dear Dr BORNENS
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Cell Polarity: having and making
sense of direction
On the evolutionary significance of the primary cilium/centrosome organ in Metazoa" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Response to referees
can only thank the referee for his/her highly positive comment that I appreciated
much.
introduced the minor revisions proposed and the three references which clarify the
ssue (p 19, ref 246,249, and p 21, ref 273).
also, on my own, added two references (266 p 21, and 306 p 26) that I found
necessary at this point.
maintained in the revised version, throughout the text, some paragraphs in italic, to
help the reader to go through the text more rapidly if necessary. I hope this will be
possible at the printing.
do thank very much David Glover for his invitation (from Nov 18, 2016 !). It gave
me, besides heavy work, the opportunity to read a lot and to push forward some
deas I had for some time.
Open Biology
