Sequence analysis and structure prediction of ABHD16A
and the roles of the ABHD family members in human
disease
Jun XU, Weizhen Gu, Kai Ji, Zhao Xu, Haihua Zhu and Wenming Zheng
Article citation details
Open Biol. 8: 180017.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.180017
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 April 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 30 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-18-0017.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
The author provided the comprehensive information of ABHD that is helpful for specialists and
the general readers. Besides, they also showed their study on the structure of ABHD16A.
However two major concerns for publication are as followings:
1. The preciseness of sentences should be promoted;
2. The information should be better organized so that the general readers will follow it easily.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0017.R0)
12-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Xu,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-18-0017 entitled "Sequence analysis
and structure prediction of the ABHD16A and the roles of ABHD family members in human
disease" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
The reviewer have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your
manuscript and that the manuscript is checked by a professional language editing service - please
find suggestions here: https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/language-polishing/
Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
3
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
4
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Referee:
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The author provided the comprehensive information of ABHD that is helpful for specialists and
the general readers. Besides, they also showed their study on the structure of ABHD16A.
However two major concerns for publication are as followings:
1. The preciseness of sentences should be promoted;
2. The information should be better organized so that the general readers will follow it easily.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-18-0017.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0017.R1)
30-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Xu,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Sequence analysis and structure
prediction of ABHD16A and the roles of the ABHD family members in human disease" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
5
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Referee:
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The author provided the comprehensive information of ABHD that is helpful for specialists and
the general readers. Besides, they also showed their study on the structure of ABHD16A.
However two major concerns for publication are as followings:
1. The preciseness of sentences should be promoted;
2. The information should be better organized so that the general readers will follow it easily.
The authors’ responses:
We are very grateful for the editor’s approval and excellent revision suggestions. In accordance with
these suggestions, we modified the sentences that may be considered imprecise or difficult to
understand. To enhance clarity for the general reader, we reorganized the information, adjusted the
order of some sentences, and even rewrote the sections we believe to be important. In addition, the
revised manuscript has been checked and modified by American Journal Experts, a well-known
company providing a professional language editing service. The details of language embellishment are
not be enumerated here.The following is a list of the main revisions and key points:
1. In the reivised version, the title is change to “Sequence analysis and structure prediction of
ABHD16A and the roles of the ABHD family members in human disease”. The original title is
“Sequence analysis and structure prediction of the ABHD16A and the roles of ABHD family
members in human disease”The only difference with the first manuscript is the location of the word
“the”.
2. We checked and reorganized the sentences in the abstract to increase conciseness and ensure
that the abstract is informative. To avoid the abrupt appearance of the subject, we added general
information regarding ABHD16A and the ABHDs to provide the readers with preliminary knowledge
of the topic discussed.
3. In the introduction, we replaced “Human ABHD16A gene (BAT5)” with a simple abbreviation
“ABHD16A”, which is defined in the introduction (line 44, the revised version). To enhance clarity
and coherence, we adjusted the order of several sentences. The sentence “ABHD16A is a serine
metabolism enzyme, typically containing…” was moved to line 45-46. Line 47-49 “Especially in
the last 2-3 years, some groups reported…” of the first manuscript was reworded “Particularly
within the prior 2-3 years, several groups have reported that…” in the revised version. The last
sentence of Introduction was reworded to “Significant insights and future developments are also
proposed” from “The significant insights or development in the future were also provided”.
4. In the first manuscrip, Line 87-88, “In addition, there is a highly conserved histidine residue in a
variable loop in the back of ß8” was changed to “In addition, a highly conserved histidine residue is
present in a variable loop behind ß8” after modification, line 93.
5. We inserted the missing “(Table 1)”, line 97, the revised version. In addition, the word“from”was
replaced with“in” in the caption of this table (line 111).
6. We replaced the headline “Research progress of ABHD16A” (line 105, the first manuscript) with
“Research progress related to ABHD16A”( line 112, the revised manuscript). Moreover, the first two
paragrah was re-divided according to the relevance of the content (line 121-122).
7. Similarly, we repaced the word “of” (line 148, the first manuscript) with “related to” ( line 156, the
revised manuscript) .
8. We changed the subhead 6.1 “A direct participant in lipid metabolism” to “Direct contribution to
lipid metabolism” (line 162) according to the suggestion of AJE editor. The others subheads were
changed slightly because the prepositions “for” was replaced with “in”, respectively line 181, 200,
228, 240.
9. We deleted a general descriptional and unnecessary sentence “Palmitoylation modification of
protein is a major posttranslational modification for significant function” , line 265-266 of the first
manuscript.
10. In the competing interests section, we replaced the heading with the more standard “Competing
interests” according to the “Author guidelines” of the Royal Society, line 295.
11. In table 2, we inserted the missing references citations. Consequently, these citations information
were added in the section of References according to their corresponding location by the EndNote
software .
12. In Figure 3A, we showed the three categories in the right of the cladogram.
Thanks again for the hard work of the reviewer and editor!
Open Biology
