Quantifying the phosphorylation timescales of receptor–
ligand complexes: a Markovian matrix-analytic approach
M. López-García, M. Nowicka, C. Bendtsen, G. Lythe, S. Ponnambalam and C. Molina-
París
Article citation details
Open Biol. 8: 180126.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.180126
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0126.R0)
19-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Molina-París,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-18-0126 entitled "Quantifying
phosphorylation timescales of receptor-ligand complexes: a Markovian matrix-analytic approach"
has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have
recommended publication, and no further changes are required, however we require the text file
and separate electronic file for each figure prior to publication.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
The article processing charge has been waived for the manuscript.
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
3
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
I have discussed the previous decision with the Editor and have been through the responses from
the authors, and I feel they have addressed the concerns that I raised previously. They have now
considered receptor internalisation and carefully indicated the source of their various rate
constant.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-180126.R1)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0126.R1)
10-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Molina-París
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Quantifying the phosphorylation
timescales of receptor-ligand complexes: a Markovian matrix-analytic approach" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
4
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Open Biology - Decision on Manuscript RSOB-17-0171
08-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Molina-París,
We are writing to inform you that the Editor has reached a decision on your
manuscript RSOB-17-0171 entitled "Quantifying phosphorylation timescales of
receptor-ligand complexes: a Markovian matrix-analytic approach", submitted to
Open Biology.
As you will see from the reviewers’ comments below, there are a number of
criticisms that prevent us from accepting your manuscript at this stage. The
reviewers suggest, however, that a revised version could be acceptable, if you are
able to address their concerns. If you think that you can deal satisfactorily with the
reviewer’s suggestions, we would be pleased to consider a revised manuscript.
The revision will be re-reviewed, where possible, by the original referees. As such,
please submit the revised version of your manuscript within six weeks. If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let us know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and
enter your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under
"Manuscripts with Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your
manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the
manuscript. Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version
through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, please respond to the comments made
by the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File
Upload". You can use this to document any changes you make to the original
manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please
be as specific as possible in your response to the referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not
hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Editor's Comments to Author(s):
I think that the papers could be suitable after substantial revision. If you are
prepared to do this, I think it would be helpful to follow the suggestions of referee
1. Basically this would be to write the main part of the paper in the form of a long
abstract that would convey the essential findings in a way that could be understand
by the average mathematically illiterate molecular biologist and to present the
mathematical analysis as an extended appendix. If you were prepared to do this,
then I would send it for re-review.
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author(s):
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The mathematics is interesting and it seems correct. However, I feel that the
mathematical details in Sections 2.1 and 2.2 might obstruct the reader from
following the main biological idea, and the biological applications of the method.
Therefore, I suggest moving many of the calculations related to the transition
matrices in Sect 2.2 (and some calculations in Sect 2.1) to an Appendix, and leave in
this section only Figs 7, 8 and system (7) (and the discussion after eq (7)). Also
Algorithms 1&2 could removed to an Appendix.
Other smaller issues to be addressed:
- Fig 1 (extended abstract): I encourage the authors to explain (in the caption of the
figure) what do “R”, “L” and “M” stand for. Same for the transition rates "alpha" and
"beta".
- I do not understand the paragraph describing the , on page 23, lines 499-501 (Local
sensitivity analysis). Matrix A^{theta_{i}}(\theta) is defined as the matrix that
contains element-by-element derivative of a matrix A. Is the matrix A^{-1} the
inverse of A? Why do the authors need this inverse?
- because the paper is very long, and the reader can get lost quickly, it would be
helpful if the authors could remind the reader in the first line of section 3.3.1 what is
E[T_{0,0}(N)] that they are plotting in Fig 10.
- The fonts of tics in Figs 10 & 11 need to be increased (since it is very difficult to
read the axes)
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The general approach is interesting although I am not convinced that the
conclusions take us very far forward. The basic evaluation that has been made is to
compare two models of phosphorylation (immediate or delayed) for a RTK that
binds a dimeric ligand (such as VEGF used in their example). The conclusion is that it
doesn't really have a big impact, which isn't really surprising when the rate
constants used in the model for phosphorylation and dephosphorylation are so
similar. It is, however, a good attempt to estimate the kinetics of the formation of
dimers induced by ligand, and the resulting phosporlylation. An interesting
conclusion is that rapid binding of high concentrations of ligands reduce the
propensity for dimers to be formed (presumably because of the reduced availability
of un-liganded monomers to form a dimer with. My concerns are that the
parameters of most of the steps have been estimated rather than measured
(particularly the kinetics of ligand binding and phosphorylation) and so any
conclusions drawn must be just qualitative (rather than the 'quantitative' evaluation
suggested by the title). The model also assumes that the receptor doesn't rapidly
internalise following agonist binding and phosphorylation. For the example chosen,
VEGFR2, this is clearly not the case. Rapid internalisation does occur and this will
remove receptors from the cell surface (effectively reducing their concentration). It
would seem sensible to me to include this in the model evaluated.
Response to referees
Manuscript RSOB-17-0171: Quantifying phosphorylation timescales of receptor-
ligand complexes: a Markovian matrix-analytic approach.
Authors: M. Lopez-Garc´ia, M. Nowicka, C. Bendtsen, G. Lythe, S.
Ponnambalam, C. Molina-París.
Dear Editors,
We sincerely thank you for the time and consideration with our manuscript RSOB-
17-0171 sub- mitted to your journal for potential publication. We have
substantially modified this manuscript in order to fully address the concerns
expressed by Reviewer 1 and Reviewer 2. Please, find below specific answers to
their comments, which we believe suitably address the concerns expressed by
both reviewers.
Thank you again for considering our work for publication and we trust our revised
manuscript can be accepted as a regular article in your journal.
With my best wishes,
Carmen Molina-París (on
behalf of all the authors)
Answer to referees:
Referee 1: The mathematics is interesting and it seems correct. However, I feel that
the mathematical details in Sections 2.1 and 2.2 might obstruct the reader from
following the main biological idea, and the biological applications of the method.
Therefore, I suggest moving many of the calculations related to the transition
matrices in Sect 2.2 (and some calculations in Sect 2.1) to an Appendix, and
leave in this section only Figs 7, 8 and system (7) (and the discussion after eq (7)).
Also Algorithms 1&2 could be removed to an Appendix.
Answer: We thank the reviewer for this comment, and acknowledge that the
mathematical details in the previous version of the manuscript might obstruct non-
mathematicians from following the main ideas and biological insights. Thus, we
have carried out the following modifications:
• We have moved the mathematical definition of the stochastic descriptors
(summary statistics) for the IP Model (starting in line 290 of the previous
version of the manuscript), as well as the analysis of these descriptors (pages
12-18 in the previous version of the manuscript) to a new Appendix (Appendix
B). The same applies to the descriptors and the analysis for the DP Model.
This content for the DP Model is now in a new Appendix (Appendix C). Finally,
we have done the same to the local sensitivity analysis (subsection 2.3 in the
previous version of the manuscript), which can be found now in a new
Appendix (Appendix D).
• This means that now matrices, calculations and algorithms can be found in
Appendices B, C and D.
• Thus, Section 2 in the new version of the manuscript contains only the
definition of the mathematical models as continuous time Markov processes,
the biological reactions considered in these models, as well as the transition
rates for these reactions.
• In summary, we believe that in the current and revised version of the
manuscript, it is easier to understand the mathematical models proposed,
as well as the aim of our approach, the numerical results and main
biological insights obtained, by reading the main part of the paper. Given
these changes to the structure of the manuscript, there is no need to have an
extended abstract, which has been removed.
Other
smaller
issues to be
addressed:
• Fig 1 (extended abstract): I encourage the authors to explain (in the
caption of the figure)what do R, L and M stand for. Same for the transition
rates ”alpha” and ”beta”.
Answer: Extended
abstract has been
removed.
• I do not understand the paragraph describing the , on page 23, lines 499-501
(Local sensitivity analysis). Matrix A<U+03B8>i (<U+03B8>) is defined as the matrix that
contains element-by-element derivative of a matrix A. Is the matrix A-1 the
inverse of A? Why do the authors need this inverse?
Answer: When carrying out a local sensitivity analysis, one needs to derivate
matrices in Algorithms 1 and 2, leading to Algorithms 1S and 2S. Since
some matrix inverses appear in Algorithms 1 and 2 (e.g., matrices H-1), one
needs to be able to compute the derivative of the inverse of a matrix. We
tried to rewrite these comments to make this clearer. These comments can
be found now in Appendix D in the revised version of the manuscript.
• because the paper is very long, and the reader can get lost quickly, it would
be helpful if the authors could remind the reader in the first line of section
3.3.1 what is E[T0,0(N)] that they are plotting in Fig 10.
Answer: We thank the reviewer for pointing this out to us. In the revised
version of the manuscript the stochastic descriptor T (N) is defined at the
beginning of Section 3.3 (Results), right before it is computed and commented
in our numerical results.
• The fonts of tics in Figs 10 & 11 need to be increased (since it is very
difficult to read the axes)
Answer: Fonts for these figures have
been now increased.
Referee 2: The general approach is interesting although I am not convinced that
the conclusions take us very far forward. The basic evaluation that has been
made is to compare two models of phosphorylation (immediate or delayed)
for a RTK that binds a dimeric ligand (such as VEGF used in their example). The
conclusion is that it doesn’t really have a big impact, which isn’t really surprising
when the rate constants used in the model for phosphorylation and
dephosphorylation are so similar. It is, however, a good attempt to estimate the
kinetics of the formation of dimers induced by ligand, and the resulting
phosphorlylation. An interesting conclusion is that rapid binding of high
concentrations of ligands reduce the propensity for dimers to be formed
(presumably because of the reduced availability of unbound monomers to form a
dimer with.
Answer: We thank the reviewer for his/her comments. Quantifying
phosphorylation timescales for models of receptor-ligand systems on the cell
surface is a challenge, for which very few analytical approaches are available in the
literature. Our main aim in this paper is to show how this can be done for a
stochastic process, by following matrix-oriented approaches and first-step
Markovian arguments, both for instantaneous or delayed phosphorylation
scenarios. Moreover, we believe that the local sensitivity analysis and the single-
molecule study that can be carried out in combination with these matrix-analytic
techniques can shed some light on the molecular mechanisms having the most
significant impact on receptor-ligand dynamics.
My concerns are that the parameters of most of the steps have been estimated
rather than measured (particularly the kinetics of ligand binding and
phosphorylation) and so any conclusions drawn must be just qualitative (rather than
the ’quantitative’ evaluation suggested by the title). The model also assumes that
the receptor doesn’t rapidly internalise following agonist binding and
phosphorylation. For the example chosen, VEGFR2, this is clearly not the case.
Rapid internalisation does occur and this will remove receptors from the cell
surface (effectively reducing their concentration). It would seem sensible to me
to include this in the model evaluated.
Answer: The referee is right in that the kinetic rates have not been determined by
means of new experimental data. However, we would like to note that they have
been estimated instead by using existing experimental data available in the
literature (among others, experimental quantifications of the average endothelial
cell surface area, VEGF-A ligand diffusion coefficients, VEGFR2 measured radius, or
average membrane thickness). Table 1 indicates the references for each rate. By
using these experimentally determined values (Table 1), receptor-ligand interaction
rates (in s-1 units) have been obtained following arguments by Lauffenburger
and Linderman (see Section 3.1 and Ref. [30]). This approach, which is standard
in the field and well-cited, is described in detailed in Section 3.1 for the sake of
completeness.
We fully agree with the referee in that internalisation is taking place during
the timescales considered in our results. Yet, the first aim of our paper was
to present the general approach provided by matrix-analytic methods. It is
clear that while this approach might be in principle applicable for more complex
models, a compromise between the computational complexity of Algorithms 1,
2, 1S and 2S, and the complexity of our models (e.g., in terms of the number
of variables of the underlying multi-variate stochastic Markov processes, which
is determined both by the number of molecules and by the reactions
considered), needs to be found. This number might clearly increase by
considering receptor trafficking and endosomal compartments.
Yet, in order to quantify the effect of internalisation we have considered, in the
revised version of the manuscript, suitable modifications of the original two models
(IP and DP models) discussed in the paper and incorporating both internalisation
and receptor synthesis, which also takes place as a basal process. In particular, new
extended models incorporating synthesis and internalisation can be found in Figure
9, and analogous results to those in Figure 8 (time course of the corresponding
stochastic variables) when incorporating these reactions can be found in the
new Figure 10. By comparing our numerical results with and without internalisation
and synthesis, the specific effect of these reactions on the phosphorylation
dynamics can be better understood. Moreover, to show how some of the analysis
can be easily adapted for these new more complex extended models, we have
adapted the analytical arguments in Section 4, regarding the single-molecule
analysis (see new subsection 3.4, Figures 9-10, modified Figure 11, as well as new
comments in subsection 3.4 and Section 4).
Decision Letter (RSOB-18-0126)
Open Biology - Decision on Manuscript RSOB-18-0126
Dear Dr Molina-París,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-18-0126 entitled
"Quantifying phosphorylation timescales of receptor-ligand complexes: a Markovian
matrix-analytic approach" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open
Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, and no further changes
are required, however we require the text file and separate electronic file for each
figure prior to publication.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can
extend this deadline for you.
The article processing charge has been waived for the manuscript.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and
enter your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under
"Manuscripts with Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your
manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the
manuscript. Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version
through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the
comments made by the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in
"Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to document any changes you make to
the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the revised
manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables
(including captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from
the text before submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main
Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred).
The format should be produced directly from original creation package, or original
software format. Please note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file
from the main text and meet our ESM criteria (see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question5). All
supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in
their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the
supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided
during submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that
the Royal Society will not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be
hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the
paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI). Your article DOI will be
10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid
jargon, explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and
describe why this topic is newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you
have an image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if
possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available.
Data should be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or
through an appropriate repository. Details of how to access data should be included
in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more
details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data
accessibility’ section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should
list the database and accession number for all data from the article that has been
made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not
hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
I have discussed the previous decision with the Editor and have been through the
responses from the authors, and I feel they have addressed the concerns that I
raised previously. They have now considered receptor internalisation and carefully
indicated the source of their various rate constant.
Open Biology
