Pathways for maintenance of telomeres and common fragile
sites during DNA replication stress
Özgün Özer and Ian D. Hickson
Article citation details
Open Biol. 8: 180018.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.180018
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 April 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-18-0018.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
This is a very good and thoughtful review of events that occur during replication stress, leading
to utilisation of the MiDAS salvage pathway. It will be of value to many workers in he
replication/repair and telomere fields. Aside from the scientific content, which is first-rate, I
cannot even find a single typo in the manuscript. I therefore suggest that you publish the work
with immediate effect!
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
Please see attached document. (See Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0018)
02-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Hickson,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-18-0018 entitled "Pathways for
maintenance of telomeres and common fragile sites during DNA replication stress" has been
accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended
publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you
to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
4
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Editor's comment:
Hi Ian - You will see that one reviewer wants quite a bit. I leave it to you to take these
suggestions as you see fit for the scope of the article and I hope these comments are helpful.
Thanks for your submission!
5
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is a very good and thoughtful review of events that occur during replication stress, leading
to utilisation of the MiDAS salvage pathway. It will be of value to many workers in he
replication/repair and telomere fields. Aside from the scientific content, which is first-rate, I
cannot even find a single typo in the manuscript. I therefore suggest that you publish the work
with immediate effect!
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Please see attached document.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-18-0018)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-18-0018.R1)
03-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Hickson,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Pathways for maintenance of
telomeres and common fragile sites during DNA replication stress" has been accepted by the
Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
The manuscript entitled, “Pathways for maintenance of telomeres and common
fragile sites during DNA replication stress” by Özer and Hickson reviews the current
state of knowledge of the molecular mechanisms underlying mitotic DNA repair
synthesis (MiDAS) and maintenance of common fragile sites and telomeres. As
cellular responses to DNA replication stress play critical roles in maintaining
genome stability and oncogene activation is one important source of chronic
replication stress, this is a timely review of an important topic that is of interest to a
broad audience. The selected topics discussed in the review address many of the
areas relevant to replication stress and MiDAS. The authors also provide a
thoughtful discussion of the remaining gaps in knowledge and potential clinical
implications for targeting MiDAS as an anti-cancer therapeutic strategy.
One concern is that the review is quite abbreviated and is indeed shorter in length
than many similar review articles published in Open Biology. In this regard, many of
the key concepts are discussed in a cursory manner and lack adequate description
of supporting evidence in the primary literature, which renders the review less
accessible to a wide spectrum of readers outside of the field. Overall, the document
would significantly benefit from a more in-depth summary of the topics. Some
examples of areas that warrant additional discussion are listed below.
1. Oncogene induced DNA replication stress. The ability of oncogenes to induce the
slowing and/or stalling of replication forks and the ‘tolerance’ of cancer cells to DNA
replication stress are concepts that are centrally important to the review. The
authors should provide a more thorough discussion/summary of the growing body
of literature that has led to mechanistic insights into the causes of oncogene induced
replication stress as well as the evidence for replication stress in cancers.
2. Common fragile sites. The causes of differential CFS expression in distinct
tissue/cell types are briefly discussed. Specific information about what is known
about the ‘altered density of active replication origins and chromatin structure’
would provide a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying fragility in
different cell types. It is also mentioned that ‘CFSs are evolutionarily conserved’.
How far does the evolutionary conservation extend? What organisms harbor CFSs?
What is conserved—genomic locations? Gene structures?
3. BIR. Break-induced replication (BIR) is discussed in several subsections as a
putative mechanism for repair of collapsed forks. For readers who are unfamiliar
with this mechanism, a more detailed explanation of this process and the
recombination outcomes would provide clarification for these points.
4. Figures. Some additional figures or diagrams depicting the relevant processes
and pathways would be useful, e.g., BIR, normal and break-induced telomere
replication, diagram of DNA fiber/combing assay (i.e., what is EdU?). Regarding the
current figures, Figure 1 appears to be reproduced from a previous publication,
which should be cited. All of the products of repair/recombination should be
represented for clarity. Figure 2 has typographical errors (‘mitotis’) and is not well
described by the title. Overall, this figure is somewhat confusing. For example, does
repair occur ‘Late in mitosis’? If so, what is the mechanism? Perhaps the aberrant
outcomes should be shaded in a different color to distinguish from the repair events.
What are the blue and yellow stars in the Missegregation diagram? Table 1 is
comprehensive, but lacks information about the functions of the proteins listed or
cell types in which the phenotypes were observed (primary cells? cancer cells?).
Likewise, many proteins were not mentioned in the review. Is this information
necessary/important? Perhaps a discussion of proteins that are promising anti-
cancer targets would increase the value of including this table.
3. Additional information that warrants further explanation:
a. What is the molecular nature of the “replication fork barrier” in the rDNA
repeats (p4)?
b. Additional hypotheses for why large genes are more susceptible to CNVs
have been proposed in the literature in addition to collision between transcription-
replication machinery (p5-6). These models should also be discussed.
c. The authors mention that ‘dysfunctional histone dynamics might trigger
the induction of ALT at telomeres’ (p7). What changes in histone compositions/
positioning/modifications are observed or predicted based on the experimental
evidence? How might this impact replication fork stalling at telomeres?
d. The authors mention that a detailed description of the protein factors
involved in repair will not be discussed in the current review. However, the absence
of adequate information regarding the functions and roles of key players, e.g., ATR,
HOP2-MND1, SLX4, SMC5-6, 53BP1, etc. causes their mention to be a source of
confusion to readers unfamiliar with the field. Background information based on
the primary literature would provide a context to understand the relevance of these
discussions. For example, what is known about ATR in response to replication
stress? What is 53BP1 and what are 53BP1 ‘bodies’? SLX4 serves as a ‘scaffold’ for
what purpose? etc.
Appendix B
Center for Chromosome Stability
Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen
Blegdamsvej 3, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark
Professor David Glover
Open Biology
March 26, 2018
Dear David,
I apologize for the delay in responding to the referees’ comments. In response to the com-
ments of Referee 2 (Referee 1 asked for no further work), we have made the following
changes:
Point 1: The review is quite abbreviated. The referee suggested the addition of more
background information on oncogene-induced replication stress, common frag-
ile sites and BIR. This we have done. The referee also suggested the inclusion
of new figures. In response to this, we have made a new Figure 1 on the BIR
process and have split Figure 2 into two separate figures that have been edited
in order to make them clearer. We have edited the text on the figures as sug-
gested too.
Point 2: There is information that warrants further explanation. We have either
added additional text for each of the points (a-d), or have added additional cita-
tions to reviews where more detailed background information can be found.
With best wishes,
Ian D. Hickson PhD FRS
Director, Center for Chromosome Stability,
Room 18.1.32,
Panum Institute
Tel: +45-35326738
Email: iandh@sund.ku.dk
Open Biology
