Interactions of the Bacillus subtilis DnaE polymerase with
replisomal proteins modulate its activity and fidelity
Vasileios Paschalis, Emmanuelle Le Chatelier, Matthew Green, François Képès, Panos
Soultanas and Laurent Janniere
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170146.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170146
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 15 June 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 25 July 2017 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 1 August 2017
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0112)
22-May-2017
Dear Dr Janniere:
We are writing to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0112 entitled "Involvment of the
DnaE polymerase in DNA replication in Bacillus subtilis" has, in its current form, been rejected
for publication in Open Biology.
The referees have recommended that major revisions are necessary but that the manuscript has
potential; hence, we would like to actively encourage you to revise the manuscript accordingly,
and resubmit. Nevertheless, please note that this is not a provisional acceptance.
The resubmission will be treated as a new manuscript and will re-enter the review process. Every
attempt will be made to use the original referees, but this cannot be guaranteed. Please note that
resubmissions must be submitted within six months of the date of this email. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office. Manuscripts
submitted after this date will be automatically rejected.
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Please find below the comments made by the referees, not including confidential reports to the
Editor, which I hope you will find useful. If you do choose to resubmit your manuscript, please
upload a ‘response to referees’ document including details of how you have responded to the
comments, and the adjustments you have made.
To upload a resubmitted manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter
your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Resubmission." Please be sure to indicate in your
cover letter that it is a resubmission, and supply the previous reference number.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Editor's Comments to Author(s):
Our Board Member, who is an authority on DNA replication, has examined both your
manuscripts and feels that despite the strength of the data they are somewhat specialized for a
journal of broad interest like Open Biology. He/she also feels that combining the papers into one
would result in a more impactful product and, if this were done, the resultant paper would be
sent out for review. However, I will fully understand if for reasons of PhD requirements, etc., this
is unacceptable to you.
Board Member
Comments to Author(s):
The data presented are good quality, and will be of interest to the DNA replication field.
However, I don't support the decision to split the research into two manuscripts. The second
paper feels like an important, but relatively minor extension of the first paper. In their current
form it seems to me that some or all of the experiments within paper 2 would better serve the
research community by being included in, and in strengthening, a single manuscript. Abstract
and title should be updated/combined. Data can be combined as multipanel figures, or moved to
supplementary as appropriate.
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0146.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
3
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
For many years, the roles of distinct replicative polymerases (given that most systems possess
two of these) has been debated, particularly regarding their demarcation and division of labour
on either the leading or lagging strand during genome replication. Although significant progress
has been made in this area in eukaryotic model organisms, with reports from Kunkel, Carr and
many others, much less is known regarding the roles and deployment of the bacterial replicases.
In this study, Pascalis et al have set out to address the roles of the “seond” replicase, DnaE in one
of the best studied bacterial replication model system, B.subtilis.
The questions this paper addresses, and the resulting findings, are described in a very clear,
logical and cohesive manner. Using a potent blend of genetics and biochemistry, the authors
provide insightful and compelling evidence to establish DnaE’s fundamental roles in genome
replication processes. This is an import new study that presents a compelling case for recognising
DnaE’s critical functions in primer extension and bulk replication in B.subtilis and how its fidelity
is determined by its interactions with the primary replicase (PolC) and DnaN.
Comments
1. P15. At the start of the results they launch into the ori/ter ratio assay without explaining
the rationale behind this. It would be useful for the reader if they added a sentence to explain
this.
2. P15. They start the results section with “to further examine”, this suggests that some
experimental work proceeded this section, which is confusing given this is the beginning of the
results section so delete “further”.
3. P15-16. In this first section, they examine how depletion and drug inhibition affect the
ori/ter ratio. These data go well together and, to increase they could increase the impact of this
section, I suggest combining the data into a revise Figure 1 (i.e. bring some of the key data from
S2 into Figure 1).
4. P18. Section 3.3, at the end of first paragraph they should state that the mutant
polymerase data is “data not shown” as currently this is not included.
5. Fig.3. The Y axis should be properly labelled “%” to “% bound” or equivalent.
6. P18, section 3.4, last sentence. They state that DnaE alone extends RNA and DNA primed
templates with similar efficiency. Although this is probably true, looking at the gels it is hard to
be so definitive. Maybe quantify the ratios of extended and unextended (substrate) from the gels
to firm this up more…
4
7. Maybe add “DNA” and “RNA” above panels 4A & B to make it easier for the reader to
see which is primed with which. Also, on P19,second paragraph, it is not clear what primer is
used so please clarify this.
8. P19, second paragraph, second last sentence. They state that DnaN did not change this
activity. Although this is probably true, looking at the gels in Fig. 4D it is hard to be so definitive.
Quantify the ratios of extended and unextended (substrate) from the gels to firm this up more…
9. Fig. 5. Lable Y axis as appropriate.
10. Fig.7D & 8. Quantify the ratios of extended and unextended (substrate) from these gels
to support statements in the text.
11. P26, section 3.9. The title of this section needs to be changed as , although the
implication of their findings in this section suggests this possibility, without further evidence this
claim is far too definitive so please temper this title and also the text in this section to reflect
this…
12. Although well written, there are a number of typos in the paper that need
correcting.(e.g. P18section 3.3, 4th line “wildtype” .
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
5
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
The paper by Paschalis et al. describes a comprehensive study of the division of labour between
the DNA polymerases PolC and DnaE during DNA replication in B. subtilis. As the authors
explain in a useful introduction, the conventional wisdom is that DnaE plays a restricted role in
making short DNA extensions from nascent RNA primers on the lagging strand before handing
over to PolC which is viewed as the major replicative polymerase. Underpinning this view is the
observation that PolC, unlike DnaE, has a proof-reading activity making it a more promising
candidate for high-fidelity replication.
Here through in vivo studies, it is shown that DnaE has an indispensable role in the initiation and
elongation of DNA replication. Subsequently in vitro assays of DNA replication in the presence
of DnaN and SSB show that DnaE can support the synthesis of long DNA strands from DNA or
RNA primers. Convincing evidence is subsequently presented that errors introduced by the low-
fidelity DnaE are corrected by the exonuclease action of a PolC subunit acting in trans.
The paper describes an impressive array of experiments testing a logically presented set of ideas
and the data are convincing - moreover they are an important contribution to the field in
revealing a much more prominent role for DnaE in DNA replication than was previously
thought. The authors in the Discussion section reflect on fundamental differences in DNA
replication between B. subtilis and E. coli. This is of general interest.
Suggested revisions
It might be helpful to include for the non-specialist a cartoon Figure in the Introduction (or
elsewhere) to show how the proteins under study interact to perform their function. There are
quite a lot of components. Also, it needs to be made clear that DnaC in B. subtilis is the replicative
helicase (in E. coli it is DnaB).
In the EMSA studies in Figure 3F, can the authors be sure the band shifts are due to different
stoichiometries of binding as opposed to different modes of binding.
In Figure 5, the relative mutagenesis rates are sometimes lower in the MutSLminus background
than in the MutSLplus background eg for the dnaEM7 mutants and the Rif assay. A comment
would be helpful.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0146)
13-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Janniere
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0146 entitled "Interactions of the
Bacillus subtilis DnaE polymerase with replisomal proteins modulate its activity and fidelity" has
been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended
publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you
to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
6
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
7
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170146)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0146.R1)
01-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Janniere,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Interactions of the Bacillus subtilis
DnaE polymerase with replisomal proteins modulate its activity and fidelity" has been accepted
by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Please find below our response to referee's comments:
Referee #1
1. P15. At the start of the results they launch into the ori/ter ratio assay without explaining the
ationale behind this. It would be useful for the reader if they added a sentence to explain
his.
The rational is now explained lines 375-380.
2. P15. They start the results section with “to further examine”, this suggests that some
experimental work proceeded this section, which is confusing given this is the beginning of
he results section so delete “further”.
Done.
3. P15-16. In this first section, they examine how depletion and drug inhibition affect the
ori/ter ratio. These data go well together and, to increase they could increase the impact of
his section, I suggest combining the data into a revise Figure 1 (i.e. bring some of the key
data from S2 into Figure 1).
Done. The result obtained with the PolCind <U+F044>polA strain and initially presented in Fig. S2 is now
given Fig. 1 bottom panel. The text and corresponding figure legends have been modified
accordingly.
4. P18. Section 3.3, at the end of first paragraph they should state that the mutant
polymerase data is “data not shown” as currently this is not included.
n the first paragraph of section 3.3 it is mentioned that " Purified wildtype B. subtilis DnaE
extends DNA primers (Fig. 3A), whereas DnaEpol- showed no such activity, as expected (Fig. 3B)."
So the conclusion of the paragraph " Additionally, we confirm that mutations D382A and D384A
abolish polymerase activity in B. subtilis DnaE" is supported by results presented Fig. 3B.
5. Fig.3. The Y axis should be properly labelled “%” to “% bound” or equivalent.
Done
6. P18, section 3.4, last sentence. They state that DnaE alone extends RNA and DNA
primed templates with similar efficiency. Although this is probably true, looking at the gels it is
hard to be so definitive. Maybe quantify the ratios of extended and unextended (substrate)
rom the gels to firm this up more…
The result is now quantified and the quantification is provided in a new revised Fig. 4. There is
only a marginal preference for RNA primers which is now made clear in the text.
7. Maybe add “DNA” and “RNA” above panels 4A & B to make it easier for the reader to see
which is primed with which. Also, on P19,second paragraph, it is not clear what primer is
used so please clarify this.
The Fig. 4 has been modified and the type of primer used in the second paragraph of P19 is now
specified line 499.
8. P19, second paragraph, second last sentence. They state that DnaN did not change this
activity. Although this is probably true, looking at the gels in Fig. 4D it is hard to be so
definitive. Quantify the ratios of extended and unextended (substrate) from the gels to firm
his up more…
The result in Fig. 4 panel C is now quantified and the quantification is provided in a new panel D.
9. Fig. 5. Label Y axis as appropriate.
Done.
10. Fig.7D & 8. Quantify the ratios of extended and unextended (substrate) from these gels
o support statements in the text.
The results in Fig. 7D are now quantified and the quantifications are provided in a new bar
graph shown in a revised Fig. 7D.
n a similar manner, quantifications for the various nascent DNA fragments shown in Fig. 8 and
discussed in the text are provided in bar graphs shown in a revised Fig. 8.
11. P26, section 3.9. The title of this section needs to be changed as , although the
mplication of their findings in this section suggests this possibility, without further evidence
his claim is far too definitive so please temper this title and also the text in this section to
eflect this…
The title and the text of section 3.9 has been tempered lines 706 and 733.
12. Although well written, there are a number of typos in the paper that need correcting.(e.g.
P18section 3.3, 4th line “wildtype” .
Some typos have been corrected.
Referee #2
t might be helpful to include for the non-specialist a cartoon Figure in the Introduction (or
elsewhere) to show how the proteins under study interact to perform their function. There are
quite a lot of components.
Relevant protein-protein interactions are shown Fig. S1 (line 106).
Also, it needs to be made clear that DnaC in B. subtilis is the replicative helicase (in E. coli it
s DnaB).
This is now mentioned lines 107, 132, 380 and 771 and the legend of Fig. S1.
n the EMSA studies in Figure 3F, can the authors be sure the band shifts are due to different
stoichiometries of binding as opposed to different modes of binding.
We thank the referee for this comment but it is unlikely that DnaE will bind with different modes
o a 30mer ssDNA. Different modes of binding i.e. polymerisation versus editing (proof-reading)
modes have been observed with functional ds/ssDNA substrates (see Johansson and Dixon,
Replicative DNA polymerases, Cold Spring Harbor Perspectives in Biology, 2013, doi :
10.1101/cshperspect.a012799, as an example of the relevant literature). DnaE does not have a
proof-reading domain and also the ssDNA 30mer is not a functional ds/ssDNA substrate for a
polymerase to induce different modes of binding.
n Figure 5, the relative mutagenesis rates are sometimes lower in the MutSLminus
background than in the MutSLplus background eg for the dnaEM7 mutants and the Rif
assay. A comment would be helpful.
The relative mutagenesis rate measures the increase in the mutation frequency in replication
mutants compared to the WT strain. As noted by the referee, these relative rates in the MutSL+
can be higher or lower than in the MutSL- context. These variations result from the balance
between the strength of the mutator phenotype of the replication mutants (assessed from the
mutant proportion in the MutSL- context) and the ability of the MutSL system to correct the
polymerase errors (assessed from the difference in the mutant proportion in the MutSL+ and
MutSL- backgrounds). This is now commented in the text (lines 534-540).
Open Biology
