The requirement of Mettl3-promoted MyoD mRNA
maintenance in proliferative myoblasts for skeletal muscle
differentiation
Kensuke Kudou, Tetsuro Komatsu, Jumpei Nogami, Kazumitsu Maehara, Akihito Harada,
Hiroshi Saeki, Eiji Oki, Yoshihiko Maehara and Yasuyuki Ohkawa
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170119.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170119
Review timeline
Original submission: 16 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 July 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0119.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (So-ichiro Fukada)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
This study shows that Mettl3 is necessary of stabilization of MyoD mRNA levels for skeletal
muscle differentiation. The potential mechanism is m6A modification of MyoD 5'UTR by Mettl3.
The work is of interest to the field, the presented data are convincing, and data supports the
conclusion. However, there are some issues with the manuscript that should be addressed before
the manuscript is ready for publication.
Please response to the following comments.
1) In abstract, authors described that ‘Myogenic progenitor/stem cells are capable of self-renewal
while retaining their skeletal muscle differentiation potential by maintaining myogenic
transcription factors such as MyoD.’
The present description seems to be not adequate because self-renewing muscle stem cells are
defined as Pax7+MyoD- cells. Of course, we know that MyoD+ cells are able to generate MyoD-
cells, but there is a possibility that muscle stem cells proliferate (self-renew) without MyoD
expression. Therefore, reviewer would like to request authors to change this description.
2) The relevance between cell cycle arrest and the roles/expression of MyoD/Mettl3 might is
confusing because major roles of MyoD is observed in cell cycle arrest cells (myogenin-positive
cells) during myogenic differentiation. If cell cycle arrest induced the reduced expression of
Mettl3, both Mettl3 and MyoD is not necessary for myogenic differentiation. But, as well as
MyoD, authors showed that Mettl3 is also critical for myogenic differentiation. Do those results
mean that the regulation of Mettl3-MyoD axis has different roles between reversible and
irreversible cell cycle arrest?
3) Please check references. For example, reference 20 (1997) did not involve Nanog found in 2003.
4) Page 3, line 42
Please change ‘muscle regulatory factors’ to ‘myogenic regulatory factors’. MRFs stand for
‘myogenic regulatory factors’.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Yusuke Ono)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
Yes
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
Understanding how myogenic differentiation is controlled is one of the pivotal questions in
muscle biology. This manuscript by Kudou et al showed the MyoD mRNA level was
downregulated by cell-cycle arrest in S and G2 phases, resulting in impaired myogenic
differentiation. They also found that the MyoD mRNA level was regulated by Mettl3 that induces
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modifications of RNA metabolism. Only processed, but not
unprocessed, MyoD mRNA was downregulated by siRNA-mediated knockdown of Mettl3. The
potential sites of m6A modification were identified in the 5'UTR of MyoD mRNA. MyoD mRNA
processing was disrupted by deletion of the 5' UTR. Thus the authors concluded that Mettl3 has
an important role in MyoD mRNA stabilization in myoblasts during proliferation. Overall, this
manuscript is well written, and the results are convincing and will contribute to the field of
muscle biology. Below is a comment to be addressed to improve the manuscript before
publication.-Immunostainng data for MyHC in Mock-transfected myoblasts in Figure 2(d)
overlaps the data shown in Figure S3(c). The authors should not use the same images in different
figures even if these are perhaps the same experimental condition. Please replace the images for
either Figure.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Jeffrey Nickerson)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
4
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_3
N6-Adenosine methylation of mRNA was first observed many years ago by Fritz Rottman. The
significance of this widespread modification has only recently begun to be appreciated. The
authors of this manuscript convincingly demonstrate the importance of this modification for
stabilizing MyoD mRNA in support of skeletal muscle differentiation. This result is highly
significant and highly likely to be correct.The authors started with previous observations that
MyoD mRNA levels were reduced after cell cycle arrest. The authors confirmed these
observations and, exploiting them as an experimental system, tracked down the mechanism.
They focused on mRNA stability. Of two candidate stability factors, Mettl3, an N6-Adenosine-
Methyltransferase subunit was responsible based on knockdown experiments. N6-A
methylations of MyoD mRNA were found in MyoD exons but were highly enriched around the
5’ untranslated regions of the mRNA which is unexpected. Effects of m6A on RNA processing
were ruled out as an alternative mechanism. These results support Mettl3 stabilization of MyoD
mRNA as a significant mechanism promoting myogenesis.The figures were a bit small and it was
difficult to read the text labels on them. Supplemental figures were more appropriately
sized.This is a straight-forward, and compelling story presented in a well written manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0119)
21-Jul-2017
Dear Professor Ohkawa,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0119 entitled "The requirement of
Mettl3-promoted MyoD mRNA maintenance in proliferative myoblasts for skeletal muscle
differentiation" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s)
have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript.
Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
5
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
6
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170119)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0119.R1)
27-Jul-2017
Dear Professor Ohkawa
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The requirement of Mettl3-
promoted MyoD mRNA maintenance in proliferative myoblasts for skeletal muscle
differentiation" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Responses to the comments of Referee: 1
Q1. In abstract, authors described that ‘Myogenic progenitor/stem cells are capable of
self-renewal while retaining their skeletal muscle differentiation potential by maintaining
myogenic transcription factors such as MyoD.’
The present description seems to be not adequate because self-renewing muscle stem cells
are defined as Pax7+MyoD- cells. Of course, we know that MyoD+ cells are able to
generate MyoD- cells, but there is a possibility that muscle stem cells proliferate (self-
renew) without MyoD expression. Therefore, reviewer would like to request authors to
change this description.
A1. Pax7+MyoD- satellite cells, which are referred to as quiescent satellite cells (QSCs),
are in a non-dividing state, and upon stimuli they are activated and become MyoD+
(activated satellite cells, ASCs), entering a proliferative state (Almada and Wagers, 2016,
Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol). It is also established that a minor fraction of ASCs gives rise to
non-dividing QSCs through self-renewal (Motohashi and Asakura, 2014, Front Cell Dev
Biol). Therefore, here the term “myogenic progenitor/stem cells” would fit Pax7+MyoD+
ASCs rather than Pax7+MyoD- QSCs. Moreover, a mouse myoblast cell line C2C12,
which we use as a model system for myogenic differentiation, is expressing MyoD and
has been referred to as a progenitor cell in many other literatures of the field. Based on
these facts, we would argue that the sentence in the Abstract is not inadequate. This point
is also important for considering the potential relationship between MyoD and cell cycle
progression (see Q2 and A2 below). Nonetheless, to avoid potential confusion for readers,
we have modified the sentence as follows: “Myogenic progenitor/stem cells retain their
skeletal muscle differentiation potential by maintaining myogenic transcription factors
such as MyoD.”
Q2. The relevance between cell cycle arrest and the roles/expression of MyoD/Mettl3
might is confusing because major roles of MyoD is observed in cell cycle arrest cells
(myogenin-positive cells) during myogenic differentiation. If cell cycle arrest induced the
reduced expression of Mettl3, both Mettl3 and MyoD is not necessary for myogenic
differentiation. But, as well as MyoD, authors showed that Mettl3 is also critical for
myogenic differentiation. Do those results mean that the regulation of Mettl3-MyoD axis
has different roles between reversible and irreversible cell cycle arrest?
A2. We thank the reviewer for raising an important point. We understand that MyoD plays
a pivotal role during myogenic differentiation, which eventually results in post-mitotic
muscle fibers. However, there is also accumulating evidence that MyoD regulates and/or
is regulated by cell cycle progression, in line with our study here. For instance, it has been
reported that MyoD transcriptionally induces the expression of Cdc6, which helps
satellite cells to enter the S phase (Zhang et al., 2010, J Cell Biol). In addition, a recent
study using replicative senescence models has pointed out a critical role of cell cycle
progression in the MyoD-mediated myogenic program (Latella et al., 2017, Genes Dev).
In sum, MyoD appears to play dual roles, either positively or negatively correlated with
cell cycle progression. Therefore, we believe that the Mettl3-MyoD axis shown in this
manuscript would be an additional regulatory layer for the interplay between MyoD and
the cell cycle, although this point should be addressed elsewhere in the future.
Q3. Please check references. For example, reference 20 (1997) did not involve Nanog
found in 2003.
A3. We apologize for our mistake. As ref. 20 is about the identification of Mettl3, we
have moved the citation to the appropriate place in which “methyltransferase like 3
(Mettl3)” first appears (page 3, line 56). We have revised the manuscript and confirmed
all other references throughout in case.
Q4. Page 3, line 42
Please change ‘muscle regulatory factors’ to ‘myogenic regulatory factors’. MRFs stand
for ‘myogenic regulatory factors’.
A4. We agree it and have corrected the term accordingly.
Responses to the comments of Referee: 2
Q1. Immunostainng data for MyHC in Mock-transfected myoblasts in Figure 2(d)
overlaps the data shown in Figure S3(c). The authors should not use the same images in
different figures even if these are perhaps the same experimental condition. Please replace
the images for either Figure.
A1. We apologize for the issue. We originally prepared Figure S3c using the same images
shown in Figure 2d so that readers could compare the original data shown in the main
figure (Figure 2d) and the supplemental data (Figure S3c). However, we did not mention
it in the figure legends, which was our mistake. We appreciate the reviewer for raising
this point and have updated the manuscript. The current manuscript has different images
in Figure 2d, while those in Figure S3c are unchanged. The conclusion is not affected by
this change.
Responses to the comments of Referee: 3
Q1. The figures were a bit small and it was difficult to read the text labels on them.
Supplemental figures were more appropriately sized.
A1. We agree it and have revised the figures. Now we submit all the figures as .eps files,
which is an acceptable format, and believe that they are of publication quality.
Open Biology
