Region-specific RNA m6A methylation represents a new
layer of control in the gene regulatory network in the mouse
brain
Mengqi Chang, Hongyi Lv, Weilong Zhang, Chunhui Ma, Xue He, Shunli Zhao, Zhi-Wei
Zhang, Yi-Xin Zeng, Shuhui Song, Yamei Niu and Wei-Min Tong
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170166.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170166
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 9 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0166.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Chengqi Yi)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
Yes
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
m6A is the most well characterized epitranscriptomic mark in the mammalian systems and
impacts many different functions of RNA biology. However, no previous study has ever
examined its distribution and regulation in the brain, where it is of high abundance. In this study,
Chang et al reports the first transcriptome-wide methylation profile of m6A in mouse brain,
demonstrating region-specific methylation, the existence of the heterogeneity of RNA
methylation across different brain regions and different types of neural cells. Most interestingly,
the discovery of the high m6A methylation levels of FMRP target mRNAs suggests a possible
function of m6A in synapse and disease. In general, the data is well interpreted and the
manuscript presents a clear and interesting story. I recommend the publication of this work in
Open Biology after minor revision:
1. In page 12, the logic of this paragragh is a little disordered. It will be better to firstly
introduce the term of numbers of mRNA peaks and genes, then introduce the term of fold
enrichment of peaks and genes instead of the mixture and crossing of the two terms.
2. Also in page 12 line 245-247, “the number of specifically methylated mRNAs (SMRs) was
much higher including 1559 cerebellar SMRs and 712 cortical SMRs” should be revised to “the
number of specifically methylated mRNAs (SMRs) was much higher in cerebellar SMRs(1559)
than in cortical SMRs(712)”.
3. In figure 2h-i, the largely different numbers of “common” and “specific” may generate
difference when calculating the difference of fold enrichment between the two parts, so the
similar numbers of input is suggested to be put to calculate the difference of fold enrichment
between the two parts.
4. In figure 3a, when calculating the motif of the m6A, the distance of the upstream and
downstream of the m6A between the two samples (cerebellum and cortex) is different, I mean it
should be consistent when calculating the motif of the two samples, including the length and the
up-down stream distance between the modification sites. In this figure, we don’t know the base
at the +2 site of the cortex.
5. In page 16 line 330, it is mentioned that “identified 814, 704 and 1,436 genes with
detectable methylation levels in three types of cells in cerebellum”. Do the authors know (or can
you estimate based on literature) the proportions of the three cells? The difference of methylated
genes and levels between these three cells could be influenced by the difference of the numbers of
cells, as shown in figure 4a b c. The authors may want to change the wording a bit.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Shubing Qian)
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
3
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Yes
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
In this manuscript, Chang et al investigated the m6A profiles in different mouse brain regions
and illustrated common and region-specific mRNA targets. In-depth data analysis revealed an
interesting correlation between methylated mRNAs and FMRP targets. In addition, the start
codon-associated m6A is intriguing and implies a novel regulation in neuron development.
Recent years have witnessed stunning progress on “epitranscriptomcs”, which triggered a flurry
of studies aimed at functional characterization of mRNA m6A modification. The study by Chang
et al yields timely and useful information by focusing on brain region-specific m6A. It has long
been appreciated that brain tissue is subject to m6A regulation. However, the relevant studies
lagged behind partly due to the technical challenge. The authors had nicely performed brain
tissue isolation, which is key to the success of mapping region-specific m6A profiles. As a result,
the study revealed several interesting findings, which lay a foundation for future mechanistic
investigations. The manuscript was clearly written, the data is of high quality, and the reference
is up-to-date. Except for a few minor concerns, I highly recommend publication of this
manuscript at Open Biology.
Minor comments:
1. The figure legend of Fig. 6c is unclear. Does the orange bar refer to unmethylated FMRP
targets? It will be more informative to see the relative distance between m6A peaks and FMRP
binding sites. Zero distance will support the model depicted in Fig. 6f.
2. Page 22, is there any evidence showing that the target mRNAs are demethylated upon
synaptic stimuli?
3. The overlap between m6A and FMRP targets is intriguing. Phenotypically, does
overexpression of m6A demethylases (e.g., FTO or ALKBH5) potentially mimic the FMRP
disease? A clearer discussion will be desirable.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0166)
31-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Niu
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0166 entitled "Region-Specific RNA
m6A Methylation Represents a New Layer of Control in the Gene Regulatory Network in the
Mouse Brain" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s)
have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript.
Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)' comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
5
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Note from Editor: The authors use the term "protein translation" several times in the manuscript.
This is incorrect usage since it is the mRNA that is translated, not the protein. Please change to
"mRNA translation" or "protein synthesis".
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170166)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0166.R1)
09-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Niu
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Region-Specific RNA m6A
Methylation Represents a New Layer of Control in the Gene Regulatory Network in the Mouse
Brain" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open Biology.
6
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received,
we may publish the paper as it stands.
Article processing charge
Please note that the article processing charge is immediately payable. A separate email will be
sent out shortly to confirm the charge due. The preferred payment method is by credit card;
however, other payment options are available.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
RESPONSE TO REVIEW
Mengqi Chang1*, Hongyi Lv2,3*, Weilong Zhang4*, Chunhui Ma1, Xue He1, Shunli Zhao1, Zhi-Wei
Zhang 1, Yi-xin Zeng4, Shuhui Song2, Yamei Niu1#, Wei-Min Tong1# (2017) Region-Specific RNA
m6A Methylation Represents a New Layer of Control in the Gene Regulatory Network in the Mouse
Brain. Open Biology 10.1098/rsob.170166
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
m6A is the most well characterized epitranscriptomic mark in the mammalian systems and impacts
many different functions of RNA biology. However, no previous study has ever examined its
distribution and regulation in the brain, where it is of high abundance. In this study, Chang et al
reports the first transcriptome-wide methylation profile of m6A in mouse brain, demonstrating
region-specific methylation, the existence of the heterogeneity of RNA methylation across different
brain regions and different types of neural cells. Most interestingly, the discovery of the high m6A
methylation levels of FMRP target mRNAs suggests a possible function of m6A in synapse and
disease. In general, the data is well interpreted and the manuscript presents a clear and interesting
story. I recommend the publication of this work in Open Biology after minor revision:
1. In page 12, the logic of this paragraph is a little disordered. It will be better to firstly introduce
the term of numbers of mRNA peaks and genes, then introduce the term of fold enrichment of
peaks and genes instead of the mixture and crossing of the two terms.
Answer: We thank this reviewer’s constructive comment. In the revised manuscript (Page 12, Line
243-265), we have modified text according to the suggestion.
2. Also in page 12 line 245-247, “the number of specifically methylated mRNAs (SMRs) was
much higher including 1559 cerebellar SMRs and 712 cortical SMRs” should be revised to “the
number of specifically methylated mRNAs (SMRs) was much higher in cerebellar SMRs (1559) than
in cortical SMRs (712)”.
Answer: Thanks for this reviewer’s suggestions to make more clear presentation. We have made
revision according to your suggestion (Page 12, Line 246-250).
3. In figure 2h-i, the largely different numbers of “common” and “specific” may generate
difference when calculating the difference of fold enrichment between the two parts, so the similar
numbers of input is suggested to be put to calculate the difference of fold enrichment between the
two parts.
Answer: We thank this reviewer for the constructive comments. We have added one
supplementary figure to address this question. From the commonly methylated RNAs, we
randomly extracted the same numbers of m6A peaks or methylated RNAs as specifically methylated
RNAs, and then compared for their methylation levels. In total, 10 sets of commonly methylated
RNAs were extracted and compared. Same result was obtained that commonly methylated RNAs
had higher methylation levels than specifically methylated RNAs. This result was shown in
Supplementary Figure S2g & S2h. We included this result in page 13, line 261-265.
4. In figure 3a, when calculating the motif of the m6A, the distance of the upstream and
downstream of the m6A between the two samples (cerebellum and cortex) is different, I mean it
should be consistent when calculating the motif of the two samples, including the length and the
up-downstream distance between the modification sites. In this figure, we don’t know the base
at the +2 site of the cortex.
Answer: We thank this reviewer for his comments. The motif shown in previous version was an
output generated automatically by using HOMER software, when the length of motif was set as
5nt. Judged from the results from several groups and ours (Ref. 10, 12 & 62), the distance of the
upstream and downstream of the m6A was not always the same. In order to know the base at the
+2 site of the cortex, we re-analyzed the motif by setting the parameter of motif length as 6nt and
7 nt, and observed similar motifs in both cerebellum and cortex. The most conserved base at the
+2 site in both samples was U. This result was added as a supplementary figure S6c, S6d.
5. In page 16 line 330, it is mentioned that “identified 814, 704 and 1,436 genes with detectable
methylation levels in three types of cells in cerebellum”. Do the authors know (or can you estimate
based on literature) the proportions of the three cells? The difference of methylated genes and
levels between these three cells could be influenced by the difference of the numbers of cells, as
shown in figure 4a b c. The authors may want to change the wording a bit.
Answer: We thank this reviewer for the suggestions. Based on literature research, in mouse
cerebellar cortex, the granular cells account for ~85%, astrocytes account for ~15%, while Purkinje
cells account for 0.2% only (Ref. 7). However, we don’t think that the difference of methylated
genes and levels could be influenced by the different cells numbers, because we did not perform
m6A-IP directly using the specified type of neural cells. Instead, we took advantage of the result of
TRAP-seq of adult mouse cerebellum (Ref. 68). They generated Pcp2, Neurod1 and Sept4 bacTRAP
animals which were utilized to purify Purkinje cells, granular cells and Bergmann glial cells
respectively. Four cerebella were used for cells isolation and RNA purification, followed by TRAP-
seq which only needed 10 ng of total RNA for cDNA library construction. By comparing the RNA
expression among the three types of cells, they identified cell-type enriched RNAs, including 922
Purkinje cell-, 2084 Bergmann glia-, and 986 granular neuron-enriched genes. Therefore, what we
analyzed in this study were the methylation levels of these cell-type enriched RNAs, but not all the
RNAs isolated from one type of neural cells. In order to make this point easier to be understood,
we have made some revision on page 16, Line 340-356.
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In this manuscript, Chang et al investigated the m6A profiles in different mouse brain regions and
illustrated common and region-specific mRNA targets. In-depth data analysis revealed an
interesting correlation between methylated mRNAs and FMRP targets. In addition, the start codon-
associated m6A is intriguing and implies a novel regulation in neuron development.
Recent years have witnessed stunning progress on “epitranscriptomcs”, which triggered a flurry
of studies aimed at functional characterization of mRNA m6A modification. The study by Chang et
al yields timely and useful information by focusing on brain region-specific m6A. It has long been
appreciated that brain tissue is subject to m6A regulation. However, the relevant studies lagged
behind partly due to the technical challenge. The authors had nicely performed brain tissue
isolation, which is key to the success of mapping region-specific m6A profiles. As a result, the study
revealed several interesting findings, which lay a foundation for future mechanistic investigations.
The manuscript was clearly written, the data is of high quality, and the reference is up-to-date.
Except for a few minor concerns, I highly recommend publication of this manuscript at Open
Biology.
Minor comments:
1. The figure legend of Fig. 6c is unclear. Does the orange bar refer to unmethylated FMRP targets?
It will be more informative to see the relative distance between m6A peaks and FMRP binding sites.
Zero distance will support the model depicted in Fig. 6f.
Answer: We thank this reviewer for the constructive suggestion. Yes, the orange bar refers to
unmethylated FMRP targets. We have modified the figure legend in order to make it easier to be
understood (Page 36-37, Line 914-915). Our finding of the correlation between FMRP and m6A was
drawn mainly based on data mining including the previous CLIP by others and our m6A-seq. Data
analysis from several independent studies revealed that the consensus motif of FMRP binding sites
include GAC, GGA and ACU, which are highly similar to m6A motif. We do agree that it will be more
informative to see the relative distance between m6A peaks and FMRP binding sites. Currently we
have initiated another project to investigate whether FMRP is a direct m6A reader or not, by
utilizing in vivo FMRP CLIP and miCLIP (Ref. 66). In this manuscript, we changed the wording a bit
in order to avoid overstatement (page 23, line 484-491).
2. Page 22, is there any evidence showing that the target mRNAs are demethylated upon
synaptic stimuli?
Answer: We thank this reviewer for the question. To our knowledge, there is no published data
showing that the target mRNAs are demethylated upon synaptic stimuli under normal physiological
condition. However, under pathophysiological conditions, fear conditioning exposure caused an
increase of m6A in mouse prefrontal cortex (Ref. 34) and hippocampus (Ref. 89). On the other side,
in addition to demethylation, either increase or decrease in RNA methylation level caused by
altered expression of writer and reader genes may also be able to interfere the FMRP-RNA protein
interaction. Thus, in the revised manuscript, we changed the wording in the manuscript for an
objective judgement (Page 22. Line 491-506).
3. The overlap between m6A and FMRP targets is intriguing. Phenotypically, does
overexpression of m6A demethylases (e.g., FTO or ALKBH5) potentially mimic the FMRP disease?
A clearer discussion will be desirable.
Answer: We thank this reviewer for his invaluable question. Indeed, this is a very important
question to address. There is no published data yet showing that the overexpression of m6A
demethylases potentially mimics the FMRP diseases. We have performed in vivo transient
overexpression of FTO in mouse cerebellum by using lentivirus system. We observed the defect in
cerebellum development, but we could not conclude that it mimics the FMRP disease, since FTO
was overexpressed only in very limited area in the mouse brain. However, Fto genetic variants have
been found to be correlate with high risk of Alzheimer diseases (Ref. 91 & 92). Meanwhile, an
Alkbh5 SNP was also found in the major depressive disorder patients (Ref. 90). These results imply
that m6A RNA methylation may play a role in synaptic signaling and intellectual disability.
Additionally, alteration in mRNA methylation, either increase or decrease, may be able to interfere
the FMRP-RNA interaction as well. Therefore, there is a possibility that other m6A-related genes
are also contribute to cognitive disorders. We have revised the manuscript as shown on Page 23,
line 507-524.
Open Biology
