Wnt ligand presentation and reception: from the stem cell
niche to tissue engineering
Kate M. Mills, James L. A. Szczerkowski and Shukry J. Habib
Article citation details
Open Biol. 7: 170140.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170140
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 June 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 21 July 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0140.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
Suggest title change to more accurately reflect the balance of content - Wnt presentation and
response/reception: from the stem cell niche to tissue engineering.
A lot of the text contains very long sentences. Please look for opportunities to shorten the
sentences as it would improve readability. Please also use more active rather than passive voice
in your sentences. Please also avoid fragmented sentences e.g. "To maintain signalling activity,
covalent binding in a manner that does not disrupt the tertiary structures, including the critical
disulphide bridges was essential.”
The text mostly seems to be about Wnt-responding stem cells, and less about Wnt presentation.
The figures are nice and easy to understand.
Please carefully reread the text to identify grammatical and typological errors to be corrected e.g.
Typo in Table 1: Lgr5, not Lrg5
Edits:
Abstract - paving the way to "improvements in our fundamental understanding of Wnt"
Introduction - "we focus on advances" not "advancements"; "recapitulate aspects of the stem cell
niche" not "recapitulate the stem cell niche";
The first paragraph of "Identification of mammalian Wnt-responsive stem cells" is rather
rambling, and the point is not obvious. Is it to say that lineage tracing is the best way to
definitively test the Wnt-responding characteristic of stem cells? Please rewrite to improve its
clarity and its overall point.
The next paragraph “Investigating the stem cell compartment in vivo” starts with a long
description of how to study the localisation of Wnt. A more appropriate title might then be
“Visualising Wnt signals and response in the stem cell niche in vivo”. In this same section, “for
example, the interfollicular epidermal and testicular niche” rather than “the interfollicular and
testicular”.
For the “Intestinal stem cell niche” section, if the Frz-bound, membrane-tethered Wnt is
dispersing via cell-cell division, would it be more appropriate to call that “Wnt transfer” rather
than “Wnt presentation”? This might be a good place to highlight the difference between Wnt
transfer among the epithelial cells vs Wnt presentation from the stroma (which is not required).
This could be contrasted with the other organ systems, or to compare auto-presentation vs para-
presentation. Also, “progeny cells” rather than “progenies”. And “For example, Lgr5+ cells at the
edge of a niche are bound by a single Paneth cell” — which niche? Are you referring to organoids
here? Because in vivo, the Lgr5 cells are interspersed with paneth cells, not just a single cell, as
your Figure 1 shows.
For “Pericentral Hepatic Progenitor Niche”, “attributed to proliferation” not “accredited to
proliferation”.
3
For “Wnt processing and presentation”, the sentence “Reports indicate that this diffusion is
restricted; “ seems to be grammatically problematic, please revise.
For “non-directional presentation of Wnt ligands”, the discussion of small regulatory molecules
seems to be a bit off-topic, since the focus of the section (and review) is on Wnt ligands.
There is quite a bit of focus in the final sections on Wnt beads and the papers from the authors,
which may seem a bit out of place in a more general review paper. However, given that these
seem to be the only advances currently available in the field of directional Wnt presentation, this
focus on a couple of papers may be justified. It might help to summarize the findings further
though, to make the content more balanced with the rest of the text.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0140)
07-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Habib,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0140 entitled "Wnt Ligand
Presentation; from the Stem Cell Niche to Tissue Engineering" has been accepted by the Editor for
publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest
some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)'
comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
4
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-170140)
See Appendix A.
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0140.R1)
21-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Habib,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Wnt Ligand Presentation and
Reception; from the Stem Cell Niche to Tissue Engineering" has been accepted by the Editor for
publication in Open Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office within approx. 5
working days. Please let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this
period.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Faculty of Life Sciences & Dr Shukry J Habib 28th floor
Sir Henry Dale Fellow
Medicine Tower Wing
Principal Investigator Guy’s Campus
Centre for Stem Cells and
Great Maze Pond
Regenerative Medicine
London SE1 9RT
UK
Open Biology
Re: Wnt Ligand Presentation and Reception; from the Stem Cell
Niche to Tissue Engineering
18 July 2017
Dear Editor,
Thank you for sending out our manuscript for review and the very helpful and
constructive comments of the reviewer. We are now very happy to resubmit our
revised version of the manuscript, where the issues of the reviewer are addressed.
Below we carefully reacted to all the points raised by the reviewer.
We hope that you will now find our review suitable for publication
Yours sincerely,
Dr Shukry J Habib
Sir Henry Dale Research Fellow
Tel: +44 (0)20 7188 5604
E-mail: shukry.habib@kcl.ac.uk
Reviewer Comments:
Firstly, we would like to thank the reviewer for taking the time to read the review, and
offer us comments to improve our manuscript.
General comments:
1) The text contains very long sentences
• Many sentences have been shortened.
2) Use a more active voice than passive voice in your sentences
• Passive voice was changed to active voice where possible.
3) Avoid fragmented sentences
• Fragmented sentences were identified and changed.
4) Correct grammatical and typological errors
• The grammatical and typological errors were picked up and corrected.
Specific edits:
1) Change title to more accurately reflect balance of content
• The title has been changed at the suggestion of the reviewer to “Wnt Ligand
Presentation and Reception; from the Stem Cell Niche to Tissue Engineering”.
2) Abstract - paving the way to "improvements in our fundamental understanding
of Wnt"
• Revised
3) Introduction - "we focus on advances" not "advancements"; "recapitulate
aspects of the stem cell niche" not "recapitulate the stem cell niche"
• Revised
4) The first paragraph of "Identification of mammalian Wnt-responsive stem cells"
is rather rambling, and the point is not obvious. Is it to say that lineage tracing is the
best way to definitively test the Wnt-responding characteristic of stem cells? Please
rewrite to improve its clarity and its overall point.
• We have modified this section for clarity and provided an overview of the
techniques up to linage tracing.
5) “Investigating the stem cell compartment in vivo” starts with a long description
of how to study the localisation of Wnt. A more appropriate title might then be
“Visualising Wnt signals and response in the stem cell niche in vivo”.
• We have changed this title to better reflect the content of the section.
“Contemporary methodologies for investigating Wnt presentation and response”
6) In “Investigating the stem cell compartment in vivo”, “for example, the
interfollicular epidermal and testicular niche” rather than “ the interfollicular and
testicular”.
• Revised
7) For the “Intestinal stem cell niche” section, if the Frz-bound, membrane-
tethered Wnt is dispersing via cell-cell division, would it be more appropriate to call
that “Wnt transfer” rather than “Wnt presentation”?
• Revised
8) (Following on from 7) This might be a good place to highlight the difference
between Wnt transfer among the epithelial cells vs Wnt presentation from the stroma
(which is not required). This could be contrasted with the other organ systems, or to
compare auto-presentation vs para-presentation.
• Revised. However, we prefer to use the general term presentation. Auto and
para can be confusing and we prefer not to introduce new nomenclature.
progenitor niche” and “The interfollicular niche” sections of the review.
9) “Progeny cells” rather than “progenies”.
• Revised
10) “For example, Lgr5+ cells at the edge of a niche are bound by a single
Paneth cell” which niche? Are you referring to organoids here? Because in vivo, the
Lgr5 cells are interspersed with paneth cells, not just a single cell, as your Figure 1
shows.
• In the mammalian intestinal niche the Lgr5+ cell at the very edge of the niche
(as opposed to those in the middle) is touching one paneth cell and one +4 cell.
Therefore in this case, the Lgr5+ will receive an orientated Wnt signal from the
Paneth cell .The text has been revised for clarity.
11) For “Pericentral Hepatic Progenitor Niche”, “attributed to proliferation” not
“accredited to proliferation”.
• Revised
12) For “Wnt processing and presentation”, the sentence “Reports indicate that
this diffusion is restricted;” seems to be grammatically problematic, please revise.
• Revised
13) For “non-directional presentation of Wnt ligands” the discussion of small
regulatory molecules seems to be a bit off-topic, since the focus of the section (and
review) is on Wnt ligands.
Page 2
• We agree with the reviewer. We have moved this section to the introduction of
this section (general methods of studying Wnt signaling) where it is more relevant.
14) There is quite a bit of focus in the final sections on Wnt beads and the papers
from the authors, which may seem a bit out of place in a more general review paper.
However, given that these seem to be the only advances currently available in the
field of directional Wnt presentation, this focus on a couple of papers may be
justified. It might help to summarize the findings further though, to make the content
more balanced with the rest of the text.
• We acknowledge there is a focus on Wnt-bead and surface immobilisation, as
described in publications from our lab. As mentioned, these are the only methods
currently available to present directional Wnt. Therefore it is important to highlight
them. We have also shortened this section as requested.
Page 3
Open Biology
