Rett syndrome: a neurological disorder with metabolic
components
Stephanie M. Kyle, Neeti Vashi and Monica J. Justice
Article citation details
Open Biol. 8: 170216.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsob.170216
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 4 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 17 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 18 January 2018
Review History
label_version_1
RSOB-17-0216.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
Yes
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_1
The current manuscript entitled “Rett syndrome: A neurological disorder the metabolic
components” by Kyle et al., provide a broad description of Rett syndrome and MeCP2 function,
from the laboratory and clinical perspective. This well written review article highlights many of
the key aspects of this disorder particularly in regard to insights gleaned regarding MeCP2
function and dysfunction in animals models. In general, this review article will be of interest to
those interested in Rett syndrome or for those new to the field of Rett, searching for insight into
the disease. The article could be strengthened with limited additional information as detailed
below.
1- The dysregulation of lipid metabolism in Rett needs some expansion. In the previous sections
of the paper, the authors very nicely detail MeCP2’s role and behavior in cellular biology as a
transcriptional regulator. The sections on metabolism would benefit from a brief expansion on
cholesterol and lipid metabolism similarly to give relevance to the consequences on loss of
MeCP2 peripherally.
2- Similarly, many have demonstrated that Rett syndrome is not a neuronal disease. It appears
Rett symptomology can also be attributed to the loss of MeCP2 in other cellular populations. It
would be useful to briefly summarize this work in the review.
3- The authors briefly describe cholesterol and lipid’s function in the CNS in the context of
neurons. The manuscript would benefit with a brief discussion of metabolic disruption on other
cellular populations in the CNS, or at a minimum, the acknowledgement that all of the
genes/proteins discussed in the context of lipid metabolism apply to every CNS cell type.
4- A more descriptive explanation of how the 129/Sv and C57BL/6 mice differ in the
management of cholesterol, and how this may impact metabolic research in both mice models of
Rett would be beneficial.
5- Finally- the author points out that most research has been done in hemizygous male mice and
gives the rational that this has been done as a matter of convenience due to earlier and consistent
symptom onset, rapid disease progression and a lack of confound with X-inactivation. In reality,
the female mice are more representative in terms of representing the target clinical population,
however their symptom onset and progression does not recapitulate the human population
either. To date, this seems to be a confound with all of the model systems developed (rats, mice
and simians). This should be discussed in the review.
Minor:
1- In Figure 1, some of the fonts are cut off ‘for example- in the text ‘seizures may occur’
3
2- In Table 1, “Severe” is highlighted in a different gray then the rest of the heading
3- In figure 2- again some of the fonts are chopped off above the first cartoon of the gene
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Recommendation
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
No
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_2
A file containing the comments has been attached. (See Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0216)
24-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Justice,
We are writing to inform you that the Editor has reached a decision on your manuscript RSOB-
17-0216 entitled "Rett syndrome: A neurological disorder with metabolic components", submitted
to Open Biology.
As you will see from the reviewers’ comments below, there are a number of criticisms that
4
prevent us from accepting your manuscript at this stage. The reviewers suggest, however, that a
revised version could be acceptable, if you are able to address their concerns. If you think that
you can deal satisfactorily with the reviewer’s suggestions, we would be pleased to consider a
revised manuscript.
The revision will be re-reviewed, where possible, by the original referees. As such, please submit
the revised version of your manuscript within six weeks. If you do not think you will be able to
meet this date please let us know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, please respond to the comments made by the
referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
Editor's Comments to Author(s):
Please can you address all of these comments. Many thanks
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author(s):
Referee: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The current manuscript entitled “Rett syndrome: A neurological disorder the metabolic
components” by Kyle et al., provide a broad description of Rett syndrome and MeCP2 function,
from the laboratory and clinical perspective. This well written review article highlights many of
the key aspects of this disorder particularly in regard to insights gleaned regarding MeCP2
function and dysfunction in animals models. In general, this review article will be of interest to
those interested in Rett syndrome or for those new to the field of Rett, searching for insight into
the disease. The article could be strengthened with limited additional information as detailed
below.
1- The dysregulation of lipid metabolism in Rett needs some expansion. In the previous sections
5
of the paper, the authors very nicely detail MeCP2’s role and behavior in cellular biology as a
transcriptional regulator. The sections on metabolism would benefit from a brief expansion on
cholesterol and lipid metabolism similarly to give relevance to the consequences on loss of
MeCP2 peripherally.
2- Similarly, many have demonstrated that Rett syndrome is not a neuronal disease. It appears
Rett symptomology can also be attributed to the loss of MeCP2 in other cellular populations. It
would be useful to briefly summarize this work in the review.
3- The authors briefly describe cholesterol and lipid’s function in the CNS in the context of
neurons. The manuscript would benefit with a brief discussion of metabolic disruption on other
cellular populations in the CNS, or at a minimum, the acknowledgement that all of the
genes/proteins discussed in the context of lipid metabolism apply to every CNS cell type.
4- A more descriptive explanation of how the 129/Sv and C57BL/6 mice differ in the
management of cholesterol, and how this may impact metabolic research in both mice models of
Rett would be beneficial.
5- Finally- the author points out that most research has been done in hemizygous male mice and
gives the rational that this has been done as a matter of convenience due to earlier and consistent
symptom onset, rapid disease progression and a lack of confound with X-inactivation. In reality,
the female mice are more representative in terms of representing the target clinical population,
however their symptom onset and progression does not recapitulate the human population
either. To date, this seems to be a confound with all of the model systems developed (rats, mice
and simians). This should be discussed in the review.
Minor:
1- In Figure 1, some of the fonts are cut off ‘for example- in the text ‘seizures may occur’
2- In Table 1, “Severe” is highlighted in a different gray then the rest of the heading
3- In figure 2- again some of the fonts are chopped off above the first cartoon of the gene
Referee: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
A file containing the comments has been attached.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-17-0216)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOB-17-0216.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Recommendation
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
6
Are each of the following suitable for general readers?
a) Title
Yes
b) Summary
Yes
c) Introduction
Yes
Is the length of the paper justified?
Yes
Should the paper be seen by a specialist statistical reviewer?
No
Is it clear how to make all supporting data available?
Not Applicable
Is the supplementary material necessary; and if so is it adequate and clear?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Comments to the Author
label_comment_3
The authors propose a review about Rett syndrome and the metabolic components. I consider the
topic novel and interest, since few reviews exist about the metabolic aspects in Rett syndrome.
However, I suggest some major revisions to improve the manuscript. I have the feeling to read
two different reviews, since the main and first part of the review describes Rett syndrome,
MeCP2 structure and functions and Mecp2 animal models. Only the last part is dedicated to
metabolic dysfunctions, with particular attention to cholesterol metabolism. Thus, I suggest to
improve the organization of the manuscript and to link better the two parts, by implementing the
first part of the review with a description of clinical and preclinical evidence regarding metabolic
dysfunctions.
Although the title of the review, other metabolic alterations, except lipid metabolism, are not
discussed. If the author want to focus only on cholesterol metabolism, I suggest to modify the
title of the review. Further, I highlight some issues below:
1. In the first paragraph, please consider the more recent manuscript by Neul JL et al., 2010. Rett
syndrome: revised diagnostic criteria and nomenclature, where the clinical criteria for the
diagnosis of Rett syndrome were revised and clarified. In fact, the 2010 guidelines do not require
postnatal deceleration of head growth, since it is not seen in all girls with RTT.
2. Add more recent references regarding epidemiologic studies:
Laurvick CL, et al. 2006. Rett syndrome in Australia: a review of the epidemiology.
Chahrour M, Zoghbi HY. 2007. The story of Rett syndrome: from clinic to neurobiology.
3. I suggest to change the text of the second paragraph in " The genetic cause of Rett syndrome",
since mutation in MECP2 are quickly described by the authors and mutations on CDKL5 and
FOXG1 are also discussed.
4. When the author describe MECP2 mutation as the main cause of RTT, please consider more
recent reference, as Neul et al., 2008.
5. References for CDKL5 and FOXG1 mutations are lacking.
6. Besides a description of MeCP2 structure, please add a new part describing MeCP2 functions,
and in this context insert the first part of the paragraph "Mecp2 modulates transcription by
7
bridging DNA with regulatory complexes", which well describes the role of MeCP2 in anchoring
the NCoR1/SMRT complex to DNA.
7. In the paragraph "Phenotype variation among people with MECP2 mutations", the authors
describe the main causes of phenotypic variability among RTT patients, considering the type of
mutation, its location, XCI phenomenon and the presence of modifier factors. I suggest minor
modifications:
- please describe the 8 mutations more frequent
- the reference 60 of Shahbazian 2002 is not relevant for XCI. Please replace it with Hoffbuhr et
al., 2002.
8. In the paragraph "Animal models inform MECP2 function" the authors describe the animal
model used in RTT syndrome research, focusing on mouse models. Even if a description of
conditional mouse models is lacking, please indicate the major results from the studies based on
these mice. Moreover, I suggest to move in this paragraph the description of R306C mutation and
the discussion of results by Tillotson et al., 2017 reported later in pag 10. In table 3, add ref 98 to
R306C mouse model.
9. Regarding the discussion of statin treatment, please discuss recent data about no positive
effects of lovastatin treatment when performed on mouse models on C57 background. Moreover,
the author would mention that other mechanisms of statins, apart cholesterol lowering, have
been proposed for their therapeutic potential in neuropsychiatric disorders.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0216.R1)
03-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Justice
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript RSOB-17-0216.R1 entitled "Rett syndrome: A
neurological disorder with metabolic components" has been accepted by the Editor for
publication in Open Biology. The reviewer(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest
some minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, we invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)'
comments and revise your manuscript.
Please submit the revised version of your manuscript within 14 days. If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let us know immediately and we can extend this deadline for you.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsob and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.
Instead, please revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referee(s) and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use
this to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referee(s).
8
Please see our detailed instructions for revision requirements
https://royalsociety.org/journals/authors/author-guidelines/.
Before uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (doc, txt, rtf or tex), including the references, tables (including
captions) and figure captions. Please remove any tracked changes from the text before
submission. PDF files are not an accepted format for the "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (tiff, EPS or print-quality PDF preferred). The format
should be produced directly from original creation package, or original software format. Please
note that PowerPoint files are not accepted.
3) Electronic supplementary material: this should be contained in a separate file from the main
text and meet our ESM criteria (see http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-
authors#question5). All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be
treated as in their final form. They will be published alongside the paper on the journal website
and posted on the online figshare repository. Files on figshare will be made available
approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can
be attributed a unique DOI.
Online supplementary material will also carry the title and description provided during
submission, so please ensure these are accurate and informative. Note that the Royal Society will
not edit or typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted as provided. Please ensure that
the supplementary material includes the paper details (authors, title, journal name, article DOI).
Your article DOI will be 10.1098/rsob.2016[last 4 digits of e.g. 10.1098/rsob.20160049].
4) A media summary: a short non-technical summary (up to 100 words) of the key
findings/importance of your manuscript. Please try to write in simple English, avoid jargon,
explain the importance of the topic, outline the main implications and describe why this topic is
newsworthy.
Images
We require suitable relevant images to appear alongside published articles. Do you have an
image we could use? Images should have a resolution of at least 300 dpi, if possible.
Data-Sharing
It is a condition of publication that data supporting your paper are made available. Data should
be made available either in the electronic supplementary material or through an appropriate
repository. Details of how to access data should be included in your paper. Please see
http://royalsocietypublishing.org/site/authors/policy.xhtml#question6 for more details.
Data accessibility section
To ensure archived data are available to readers, authors should include a ‘data accessibility’
section immediately after the acknowledgements section. This should list the database and
accession number for all data from the article that has been made publicly available, for instance:
• DNA sequences: Genbank accessions F234391-F234402
• Phylogenetic data: TreeBASE accession number S9123
• Final DNA sequence assembly uploaded as online supplemental material
• Climate data and MaxEnt input files: Dryad doi:10.5521/dryad.12311
9
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Open Biology, we look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto:openbiology@royalsociety.org
Editor's comment:
The reviewer marked your article for "major review". However, the reviewer makes some clear
suggestions for improving the article and if you are able to follow most of these then I do not see
any need to send the paper back to the reviewer. Please address all of these comments and
indicate how you have done so in a covering letter to me so that I can reach the final decision.
Thank you for your contribution. I hope you find the comments of the reviewer helpful.
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Referee: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors propose a review about Rett syndrome and the metabolic components. I consider the
topic novel and interest, since few reviews exist about the metabolic aspects in Rett syndrome.
However, I suggest some major revisions to improve the manuscript. I have the feeling to read
two different reviews, since the main and first part of the review describes Rett syndrome,
MeCP2 structure and functions and Mecp2 animal models. Only the last part is dedicated to
metabolic dysfunctions, with particular attention to cholesterol metabolism. Thus, I suggest to
improve the organization of the manuscript and to link better the two parts, by implementing the
first part of the review with a description of clinical and preclinical evidence regarding metabolic
dysfunctions.
Although the title of the review, other metabolic alterations, except lipid metabolism, are not
discussed. If the author want to focus only on cholesterol metabolism, I suggest to modify the
title of the review. Further, I highlight some issues below:
1. In the first paragraph, please consider the more recent manuscript by Neul JL et al., 2010. Rett
syndrome: revised diagnostic criteria and nomenclature, where the clinical criteria for the
diagnosis of Rett syndrome were revised and clarified. In fact, the 2010 guidelines do not require
postnatal deceleration of head growth, since it is not seen in all girls with RTT.
2. Add more recent references regarding epidemiologic studies:
Laurvick CL, et al. 2006. Rett syndrome in Australia: a review of the epidemiology.
Chahrour M, Zoghbi HY. 2007. The story of Rett syndrome: from clinic to neurobiology.
3. I suggest to change the text of the second paragraph in " The genetic cause of Rett syndrome",
since mutation in MECP2 are quickly described by the authors and mutations on CDKL5 and
FOXG1 are also discussed.
4. When the author describe MECP2 mutation as the main cause of RTT, please consider more
recent reference, as Neul et al., 2008.
5. References for CDKL5 and FOXG1 mutations are lacking.
6. Besides a description of MeCP2 structure, please add a new part describing MeCP2 functions,
and in this context insert the first part of the paragraph "Mecp2 modulates transcription by
bridging DNA with regulatory complexes", which well describes the role of MeCP2 in anchoring
the NCoR1/SMRT complex to DNA.
7. In the paragraph "Phenotype variation among people with MECP2 mutations", the authors
describe the main causes of phenotypic variability among RTT patients, considering the type of
10
mutation, its location, XCI phenomenon and the presence of modifier factors. I suggest minor
modifications:
- please describe the 8 mutations more frequent
- the reference 60 of Shahbazian 2002 is not relevant for XCI. Please replace it with Hoffbuhr et
al., 2002.
8. In the paragraph "Animal models inform MECP2 function" the authors describe the animal
model used in RTT syndrome research, focusing on mouse models. Even if a description of
conditional mouse models is lacking, please indicate the major results from the studies based on
these mice. Moreover, I suggest to move in this paragraph the description of R306C mutation and
the discussion of results by Tillotson et al., 2017 reported later in pag 10. In table 3, add ref 98 to
R306C mouse model.
9. Regarding the discussion of statin treatment, please discuss recent data about no positive
effects of lovastatin treatment when performed on mouse models on C57 background. Moreover,
the author would mention that other mechanisms of statins, apart cholesterol lowering, have
been proposed for their therapeutic potential in neuropsychiatric disorders.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOB-17-0216.R1)
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOB-17-0216.R2)
18-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Justice,
We are pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Rett syndrome: A neurological
disorder with metabolic components" has been accepted by the Editor for publication in Open
Biology.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article from our Production office in due course, please
check your spam filter if you do not receive it within the next 10 working days. Please let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during this time.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Open Biology, we look forward
to your continued contributions to the journal.
Sincerely,
The Open Biology Team
mailto: openbiology@royalsociety.org
ppendix A
this article the authors have made a quite exhaustive revision of the current Rett syndrome
owledge. In particular, they wanted to give to the article a quite unusual perspective in the field,
oviding different evidence supporting the presence of a metabolic dysfunction in the disease.
ey discuss the possibility that the modulation of metabolism through drug intervention or
etary might positively impact the quality of life of patients mutated in MECP2.
o find the topic quite interesting, novel and timing. Few articles have so far outlined the
portance of MeCP2 outside of the central nervous system and although the presence of a
etabolic syndrome in RTT or mouse model of Mecp2 has been reported few times, the subject is
ill quite neglected.
cause of that, I do find this review relevant, of general interest and appropriate for Open
ology.
owever, my enthusiasm for this manuscript is mined by several major concerns that I believe the
thors should solve before publication.
ajor points:
• Although in general English is over-all fluent, there are different mistakes/typos within the
entire text, that make mandatory to carefully revisit the whole manuscript. Citing few
examples: in the abstract “MECP2 mutation” has to be mutations; page 2, “all female”
should be all females; page 3 correct “the all the”; page 9 “BDNG” should be BDNF. On the
same line the authors do not properly discriminate between the human or mouse
gene/protein. In fact, they should know that the human gene is written using capital and
italicus letters, therefore it is spelled MECP2, while the human protein is MeCP2. On the
contrary, the mouse gene has to be Mecp2, while the mouse protein is Mecp2. Further,
authors should be more consistent in the use of some terms. For example, along the entire
review, they refer to “wildtype” Mecp2 or “wild type”; Cre recombinase is written both
with or without capital letter and so on.
• The review is quite long and I believe could be shorter. Authors should eliminate
conceptual repetitions that might occur in the same page (i.e page 17) or along the text.
Further, some well-known subjects such as the existence of X inactivation in human being, I
believe could be omitted or really reduced.
• References are incredibly badly cited; there are an impressive number of mistakes. For
example, references 12 and 36 are not coherent and have to be removed; refs 53, 56, 57
and 115 are wrong. Generally, references are not really updated and the format is not
consistent along the text.
• Titles of the diverse chapters often are not coherent with the text of the paragraph. This is
the case for “association with NCoR1/HDAC3 links MECP2 to metabolism” and “Mutations
in MECP2 cause Rett syndrome”.
• The real biggest issue concerning this manuscript, however, is its organization. By reading
the manuscript, the feeling is that two diverse papers have been linked together without
being properly harmonized. In the first part, authors spend a lot of time discussing MeCP2
and Rett syndrome as most reviews do. In the first chapters (focused on the disease, the
protein, its functions and the animal models) the metabolic aspect that represents the
focus of the review is not considered at all. I believe that the manuscript will be
significantly improved by including evidence of the metabolic impairment along the whole
text, including patients, animal models and so on.
• The chapter “How does MECP2 function’” is badly written and quite confusing. It is too
long discussing topics that are not really relevant for this review and could be summarized
in few sentences. Further, it contains evidence that have been seriously questioned along
the years (I am referring to the capacity of the protein to have a biological relevant
capacity to bind not methylated DNA or an activating function of MeCP2 or its real capacity
to bind hmeC). To better harmonize the review, I believe that the NCoR interaction and
HDAC3 relevance should be anticipated in this chapter. Moreover, all the corepressor and
chromatin remodelling partners (if they want to cite them) should be considered together.
If the authors want to cite the role of MeCP2 on splicing, they cannot avoid citing also the
effect on miRNA maturation.
• On the same line of the previous concern, since authors highlighted the importance of
Mecp2 also outside the CNS, in the animal models section they should describe the mice
models in which Mecp2 has been removed in the periphery. Maybe, they could remove the
drosophila and zebrafish sections that are not important for the final message of this
review. The monkey model is quite interesting but maybe they want to highlight that is not
genetically homogeneous.
• The authors in several parts forget to mention that early development is not normal; it
appears normal. There are plenty of references proving that during embryogenesis and in
the perinatal period there are already several molecular and behavioural features (see
pages 2 and 4).
• To reinforce the evidence of the importance of genetic background in modulating
metabolism, authors should also add other references ( CD1 Mecp2 bird). Two recent papers
exist.
• I do agree that treating peripheral phenotypes (page 20) might ameliorate the quality of
life of RTT patients; however, I am not convinced that this can cure the disease. Please
carefully consider the last chapter that, in my opinion, is often too assertive. Further, at the
end of page 21 they allude to gene therapy without mentioning all the dosage concerns.
The authors can avoid this topic or critically mention it. Eventually, this chapter does not
always logically flow. Some sections are not well connected to each other and some
sentences are not supported by literature evidence (“The results from the more
homogeneous liver could inform studies of MECP2 targets in individual brain cells”).
Minor points:
• Page 3: at the end of the first chapter, there is no sense to briefly mention the mouse.
• Page 3 and the associated table: mutations in CDKL5 and FOXG1 are sometimes associated
with variants not in most of the cases. In the table, it looks like CDKL5 and FOXG1 are the
only genetic cause of the mentioned RTT variants.
• Mouse table: it contains a restricted number of mouse models of Mecp2; the authors
should make this clear and give a rationale of this selection.
• Page 5: “Despite having well-defined domains” these are functional domains; it has to be
clarified.
• Page 11: “Shortly after” the Jaenisch paper is back to back with the Bird’s one.
• Page 11: “have a robust molecular footprint”; which is it? My personal opinion is that the
field is still lacking biomarkers; please specify.
• Page 14: The rescue paper does not directly prove any evident recovery of the neurological
functions.
• Pages 15-18: the feeling is that the authors believe that the defective association of MeCP2
with NCoR causes the whole pathology. How this reconcile with other publications such as
the relevance of recruiting on chromatin ATRX?
• Page 15: “loss of HDAC3 activity in neurons”; my understanding is that HDAC3 is active but
not properly localized.
• Page 17: Neimann-Pick type C and Smith-Lemli Opitz syndrome; it would be nice to have a
short description of the most relevant features of these diseases and the possible similarity
with RTT.
• Page 17: “although the mechanisms by which it contributes …remain elusive”; it is not clear
to me which is the mechanism for the other cited diseases.
• Authors might consider including the side effects of statin treatments.
pendix B
thank the reviewers for their very thorough and helpful comments. In response to the
iews, we have re-organized several sections and figures, and cut redundancies. The
nuscript now focuses more on the role of the NCoR1 complex and the link with lipid
tabolism. Even though new text has been added to address the reviewer's concerns, overall,
text is reduced by over 25%. We believe these changes, based on the reviewer comments,
e greatly improved the quality of the manuscript.
viewer 1
current manuscript entitled “Rett syndrome: A neurological disorder the metabolic
ponents” by Kyle et al., provide a broad description of Rett syndrome and MeCP2 function,
m the laboratory and clinical perspective. This well written review article highlights many of
key aspects of this disorder particularly in regard to insights gleaned regarding MeCP2
ction and dysfunction in animals models. In general, this review article will be of interest to
se interested in Rett syndrome or for those new to the field of Rett, searching for insight into
disease. The article could be strengthened with limited additional information as detailed
ow.
he dysregulation of lipid metabolism in Rett needs some expansion. In the previous sections
he paper, the authors very nicely detail MeCP2¹s role and behavior in cellular biology as a
scriptional regulator. The sections on metabolism would benefit from a brief expansion on
lesterol and lipid metabolism similarly to give relevance to the consequences on loss of
CP2 peripherally.
agree with this comment and have added text on the role of cholesterol metabolism, and the
trol of its homeostasis in the brain, integrated into the text on pages 10 and 11.
imilarly, many have demonstrated that Rett syndrome is not a neuronal disease. It appears
t symptomology can also be attributed to the loss of MeCP2 in other cellular populations. It
uld be useful to briefly summarize this work in the review.
s is an excellent point. We have added text on the glial cell manipulations in the final
cussion section to highlight the importance of non-neuronal cells in Rett pathology:
cholesterol synthesis is a resource-expensive process, current data suggest that newborn
rons must produce cholesterol in a cell-autonomous manner, but as they mature they
source production to astrocytes (reviewed in [121,150]). Interestingly, in co-culture assays,
CP2-deficient astrocytes could not support the normal dendritic morphology of wild type
rons, although wild type astrocytes could support the dendritic morphology of MeCP2-
icient neurons [151]. Moreover, re-introducing MeCP2 to glia using GFAP-Cre in Mecp2-null
e improves symptoms and restores dendritic morphology [152,153].”
have also added text on the role of inflammation in Rett syndrome:
ditionally, abnormal lipid metabolism is directly linked to inflammation [157], which is a
ponent of pathology in both typical and atypical cases of RTT [158]. Notably, MeCP2
ctly represses Irak1 and downregulation of the NF-kB pathway improves symptoms in
cp2-null mice [159].
he authors briefly describe cholesterol and lipid¹s function in the CNS in the context of
rons. The manuscript would benefit with a brief discussion of metabolic disruption on other
ular populations in the CNS, or at a minimum, the acknowledgement that all of the
es/proteins discussed in the context of lipid metabolism apply to every CNS cell type.
reviewer makes an excellent point. In addition to the addition of text on glial cell
nipulations from the previous comment, we have indicated that cholesterol synthesis occurs
oth neurons and astrocytes in the brain: “These data could be explained by the hypothesis
t at some point during development, cholesterol synthesis is reduced in a subset of neurons,
is provided instead by astrocytes.”
more descriptive explanation of how the 129/Sv and C57BL/6 mice differ in the
nagement of cholesterol, and how this may impact metabolic research in both mice models
ett would be beneficial.
s is an insightful comment. We have cited the current evidence for this difference, and have
anded the text on pages 11 and 13, but the mechanism by which these strains manage
lesterol differently is not yet known. We have added the following sentence: “The C57BL/6J
red strain and the 129/Sv substrains manage peripheral cholesterol metabolism differently,
sumably due to differences in transport of cholesterol break down products [133].”
inally- the author points out that most research has been done in hemizygous male mice
gives the rational that this has been done as a matter of convenience due to earlier and
sistent symptom onset, rapid disease progression and a lack of confound with X-inactivation.
eality, the female mice are more representative in terms of representing the target clinical
ulation, however their symptom onset and progression does not recapitulate the human
ulation either. To date, this seems to be a confound with all of the model systems
eloped (rats, mice and simians). This should be discussed in the review.
have added text in the final section that discusses possibilities for the differences in onset of
ptoms based on regulation of cholesterol metabolism. Thank you for allowing us to express
possibility.
or:
n Figure 1, some of the fonts are cut off Œfor example- in the text Œseizures may occur¹
n Table 1, ³Severe² is highlighted in a different gray then the rest of the heading
n figure 2- again some of the fonts are chopped off above the first cartoon of the gene
thank the reviewer for these findings and the appropriate changes have been made.
viewer 2
his article the authors have made a quite exhaustive revision of the current Rett syndrome
wledge. In particular, they wanted to give to the article a quite unusual perspective in the
d, providing different evidence supporting the presence of a metabolic dysfunction in the
ease. They discuss the possibility that the modulation of metabolism through drug
rvention or dietary might positively impact the quality of life of patients mutated in MECP2.
find the topic quite interesting, novel and timing. Few articles have so far outlined the
ortance of MeCP2 outside of the central nervous system and although the presence of a
tabolic syndrome in RTT or mouse model of Mecp2 has been reported few times, the subject
till quite neglected. Because of that, I do find this review relevant, of general interest and
ropriate for Open Biology. However, my enthusiasm for this manuscript is mined by several
jor concerns that I believe the authors should solve before publication.
jor points:
lthough in general English is over-all fluent, there are different mistakes/typos within the
ire text that make mandatory to carefully revisit the whole manuscript. Citing few examples:
he abstract “MECP2 mutation” has to be mutations; page 2, “all female” should be all
ales; page 3 correct “the all the”; page 9 “BDNG” should be BDNF. On the same line the
hors do not properly discriminate between the human or mouse gene/protein. In fact, they
uld know that the human gene is written using capital and italicus letters; therefore it is
lled MECP2, while the human protein is MeCP2. On the contrary, the mouse gene has to be
cp2, while the mouse protein is Mecp2. Further, authors should be more consistent in the
of some terms. For example, along the entire review, they refer to “wildtype” Mecp2 or “wild
e”; Cre recombinase is written both with or without capital letter and so on.
thank the reviewer for their careful revision of our manuscript. We have corrected grammar
ere noted, and have hopefully caught the typos. The nomenclature of MeCP2 can be
ated, since both mouse and human nomenclature for proteins is now ALL CAPS as per the
owing from the MGI:
Guidelines for Nomenclature of Genes, Genetic Markers, Alleles, and Mutations in Mouse
Rat (here) states:
.2 Protein symbols
tein designations follow the same rules as gene symbols, with the following two distinctions:
rotein symbols use all uppercase letters.
• Protein symbols are not italicized.
be consistent with common usage in the Rett syndrome field, however, we have chosen to
w the mouse and human proteins as MeCP2 and the human gene as all CAPS, italicized
ECP2) and the mouse gene as capital letter with lower case, italicized (Mecp2).
he review is quite long and I believe could be shorter. Authors should eliminate conceptual
etitions that might occur in the same page (i.e page 17) or along the text.
ther, some well-known subjects such as the existence of X inactivation in human being, I
eve could be omitted or really reduced.
nk you for this comment. The reorganization of the review has eliminated these
undancies, and the review is now cut by over 25% (2200 words). We have greatly reduced
text describing well-known topics.
eferences are incredibly badly cited; there are an impressive number of mistakes. For
mple, references 12 and 36 are not coherent and have to be removed; refs 53, 56, 57 and
are wrong. Generally, references are not really updated and the format is not consistent
ng the text.
thank the reviewer for their attention to the references, which have now been corrected and
ated.
itles of the diverse chapters often are not coherent with the text of the paragraph. This is the
e for “association with NCoR1/HDAC3 links MECP2 to metabolism” and “Mutations in
CP2 cause Rett syndrome”.
e to the reorganization, many sections are now combined, reducing the number of headings,
hopefully, making the headings more relevant to the text.
he real biggest issue concerning this manuscript, however, is its organization. By reading
manuscript, the feeling is that two diverse papers have been linked together without being
perly harmonized. In the first part, authors spend a lot of time discussing MeCP2 and Rett
drome as most reviews do. In the first chapters (focused on the disease, the protein, its
ctions and the animal models) the metabolic aspect that represents the focus of the review is
considered at all. I believe that the manuscript will be significantly improved by including
dence of the metabolic impairment along the whole text, including patients, animal models
so on.
thank the reviewer for their insight. Due to the reorganization of our manuscript, the entire
iew now centers on topics relevant to metabolism, which is now first brought up in the first
agraph.
he chapter “How does MECP2 function’” is badly written and quite confusing. It is too long
cussing topics that are not really relevant for this review and could be summarized in few
tences. Further, it contains evidence that have been seriously questioned along the years (I
referring to the capacity of the protein to have a biological relevant capacity to bind not
thylated DNA or an activating function of MeCP2 or its real capacity to bind hmeC). To better
monize the review, I believe that the NCoR interaction and HDAC3 relevance should be
icipated in this chapter. Moreover, all the corepressor and chromatin remodelling partners (if
y want to cite them) should be considered together. If the authors want to cite the role of
CP2 on splicing, they cannot avoid citing also the effect on miRNA maturation
s was a very useful suggestion. We have removed most of the discussion of the various
posed MeCP2 functions, leaving the focus on the NCoR1-HDAC3 complex interaction.
On the same line of the previous concern, since authors highlighted the importance of
cp2 also outside the CNS, in the animal models section they should describe the mice
dels in which Mecp2 has been removed in the periphery. Maybe, they could remove the
sophila and zebrafish sections that are not important for the final message of this review.
monkey model is quite interesting but maybe they want to highlight that is not genetically
mogeneous.
have now reduced the animal models section to focus on the mouse, but have mentioned
other models briefly. We cannot find that many other models where MeCP2 has been
oved in the periphery except for the muscle, and this is now cited on page 7.
he authors in several parts forget to mention that early development is not normal; it
ears normal. There are plenty of references proving that during embryogenesis and in the
inatal period there are already several molecular and behavioural features (see pages 2 and
nk you for this comment. We have added the following text highlighting these findings:
ough Mecp2 null mice are asymptomatic prior to 4 weeks of age, there are subtle but
sistent defects in transcription, ionotropic receptor signaling, and neuronal responsiveness
ing late embryogenesis and the perinatal period.”
o reinforce the evidence of the importance of genetic background in modulating metabolism,
hors should also add other references (CD1 Mecp2 bird). Two recent papers exist.
thank the reviewer for this comment. We have now included the CD1 Mecp2 Bird mouse
ch adds to the discussion on metabolism, and is now cited on page 7 and 11:
stly, Mecp2tm1.1Bird/Y mice on a CD1 background weigh slightly less than wild type early in
but reach a normal weight by 6-7 weeks of age [84].”
ditionally, CD1.Mecp2tm1.1Bird mice have an increase in serum triglycerides with no
responding change in serum cholesterol [84].”
I do agree that treating peripheral phenotypes (page 20) might ameliorate the quality of life
TT patients; however, I am not convinced that this can cure the disease. Please carefully
sider the last chapter that, in my opinion, is often too assertive. Further, at the end of page
they allude to gene therapy without mentioning all the dosage concerns. The authors can
id this topic or critically mention it. Eventually, this chapter does not always logically flow.
me sections are not well connected to each other and some sentences are not supported by
ature evidence (“The results from the more homogeneous liver could inform studies of
CP2 targets in individual brain cells”).
thank the reviewer for their insight. We have re-organized the final section so that it flows
ter and is relevant to the re-organized review. The relevance of the peripheral phenotypes in
ards to gene therapy and to treatment, in general, is more clearly stated. We have removed
statements which imply that treating peripheral phenotype will ameliorate the disease.
or points:
age 3: at the end of the first chapter, there is no sense to briefly mention the mouse.
have removed this from the text.
Page 3 and the associated table: mutations in CDKL5 and FOXG1 are sometimes
ociated with variants not in most of the cases. In the table, it looks like CDKL5 and FOXG1
the only genetic cause of the mentioned RTT variants.
have made this clearer in the text and associated table: “Many atypical cases are
ociated with mutations in X-linked cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5; OMIM #300203)
orkhead box G1 (FOXG1; OMIM #164874), but some remain undefined.”
Mouse table: it contains a restricted number of mouse models of Mecp2; the authors should
ke this clear and give a rationale of this selection.
nk you for this comment. We have now included all null and point mutation alleles, which are
ilable on JAX Informatics. We have not included all of the conditional deletions, and have
ed that in the Table legend.
age 5: “Despite having well-defined domains” these are functional domains; it has to be
ified.
have clarified this statement to indicate that these are functional domains.
age 11: “Shortly after” the Jaenisch paper is back to back with the Bird’s one.
nk you. We have indicated that the Jaenisch mouse was designed at the same time as the
d mouse.
age 11: “have a robust molecular footprint”; which is it? My personal opinion is that the field
till lacking biomarkers; please specify.
nk you. We agree and have removed this terminology from the text.
age 14: The rescue paper does not directly prove any evident recovery of the neurological
ctions.
ough we agree with the reviewer that full neurological assessments were not carried out in
Bird 2007 Science paper titled “Reversal of neurological defects in a mouse model of Rett
drome”, the paper does show improvement of some neurological symptoms upon the re-
ression of MeCP2 in the form of restored neuronal long-term potentiation and reduced
notypic scores (based on inertia, gait, hindlimb clasping, tremor, irregular breathing and
eral condition). Therefore, we have chosen to maintain our statement.
ages 15-18: the feeling is that the authors believe that the defective association of MeCP2
h NCoR causes the whole pathology. How this reconcile with other publications such as the
vance of recruiting on chromatin ATRX?
do feel that this interaction is one of the key ones, but does not mean that it is the only
raction that can lead to pathology. Because of the reorganization of the manuscript, we do
feel that it is essential to discuss all possibilities, and instead, have tried to tone down the
biage that suggests this causes the entire pathology. Even so, we have added a very recent
nuscript that suggests this interaction is key to pathology in Rett syndrome.
age 15: “loss of HDAC3 activity in neurons”; my understanding is that HDAC3 is active but
properly localized.
have changed this to ‘loss of HDAC3 in neurons’.
Page 17: Neimann-Pick type C and Smith-Lemli Opitz syndrome; it would be nice to have a
rt description of the most relevant features of these diseases and the possible similarity with
T.
nk you for this suggestion. We have now included a short description of these diseases on
e 10-11: “Neimann-Pick type C patients accumulate cholesterol in the brain and peripheral
ues, and present with symptoms similar to RTT such as loss of acquired verbal skills and
k of motor coordination [125]. Patients with Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome develop
rocephaly, cleft lip/palate, liver defects, and autistic behaviours due to a deficiency in 7-
ydrocholesterol, allowing for the toxic buildup of cholesterol intermediates [126].”
Page 17: “although the mechanisms by which it contributes …remain elusive”; it is not clear
me which is the mechanism for the other cited diseases.
nk you. We have removed this statement.
Authors might consider including the side effects of statin treatments.
have now included a brief statement on the side effects of statins on page 13: “However,
ins are associated with other disease-improving side-effects, such as reducing inflammation,
negative side-effects, such as muscle weakness and memory loss”
pendix C
tor's comment:
reviewer marked your article for "major review". However, the reviewer makes some clear
gestions for improving the article and if you are able to follow most of these then I do not see
need to send the paper back to the reviewer. Please address all of these comments and
cate how you have done so in a covering letter to me so that I can reach the final decision.
nk you for your contribution. I hope you find the comments of the reviewer helpful.
viewer(s)' Comments to Author:
eree: 3
would like to thank the reviewer for their time and helpful comments which have helped us
rove the quality of our manuscript.
mments to the Author(s)
authors propose a review about Rett syndrome and the metabolic components. I consider
topic novel and interest, since few reviews exist about the metabolic aspects in Rett
drome.
wever, I suggest some major revisions to improve the manuscript. I have the feeling to read
different reviews, since the main and first part of the review describes Rett syndrome,
CP2 structure and functions and Mecp2 animal models. Only the last part is dedicated to
tabolic dysfunctions, with particular attention to cholesterol metabolism. Thus, I suggest to
rove the organization of the manuscript and to link better the two parts, by implementing the
part of the review with a description of clinical and preclinical evidence regarding metabolic
functions. Although the title of the review, other metabolic alterations, except lipid
tabolism, are not discussed. If the author want to focus only on cholesterol metabolism, I
gest to modify the title of the review. Further, I highlight some issues below:
thank the reviewer for this suggestion. To better link the introductory sections of our
nuscript to the metabolic discussion later in the review, we have now included a description
metabolic disturbances seen in patients alongside the description of clinical symptoms on
e 3:
tabolic complications are also common in RTT. A number of patients present with
lipidemia [15,16], elevated plasma leptin and adiponectin [17,18], and inflammation of the
bladder, an organ which stores bile for fat digestion [19]. Alterations in neurometabolites
ociated with cell integrity and membrane turnover have also been reported [20,21].
ditionally, energy-producing mitochondria have abnormal structure in patient cells [22–25].
nsistently, altered electron transport chain complex function [26], increased oxidative stress
–29], and elevated levels of lactate and pyruvate in blood and cerebrospinal fluid [26,30]
e been observed in RTT patients (reviewed in [31]).”
ddition, we have now included a figure (Figure 5) to summarize the currently known
tabolic symptoms of RTT and have also included references to the mitochondrial
ormalities observed in RTT patients and mouse models throughout. We also now point out
t the cholesterol enzyme SQLE requires mitochondria as an electron donor. We feel that this
ropriately sets up the discussion on cholesterol metabolism in the latter part of the
nuscript.
n the first paragraph, please consider the more recent manuscript by Neul JL et al., 2010.
t syndrome: revised diagnostic criteria and nomenclature, where the clinical criteria for the
gnosis of Rett syndrome were revised and clarified. In fact, the 2010 guidelines do not
uire postnatal deceleration of head growth, since it is not seen in all girls with RTT.
have updated the references to include the 2010 guidelines.
have updated the manuscript to specify that not all children have a reduced brain
ume/smaller head circumference: “Many children diagnosed with RTT have reduced brain
ume compared to healthy individuals, consistent with a smaller head circumference [9,10].”
dd more recent references regarding epidemiologic studies:
rvick CL, et al. 2006. Rett syndrome in Australia: a review of the epidemiology.
ahrour M, Zoghbi HY. 2007. The story of Rett syndrome: from clinic to neurobiology.
have now included these references in our manuscript.
suggest to change the text of the second paragraph in "The genetic cause of Rett
drome", since mutation in MECP2 are quickly described by the authors and mutations on
KL5 and FOXG1 are also discussed.
have edited this text: “Familial cases were instrumental in determining the genetic cause of
ssic RTT.” We further explain that “atypical” RTT is often caused by mutation in CDKL5 and
XG1.
When the author describe MECP2 mutation as the main cause of RTT, please consider more
ent reference, as Neul et al., 2008.
have now included this reference here. This paper is also cited in a later section where we
lore the effects of different MECP2 mutations.
eferences for CDKL5 and FOXG1 mutations are lacking.
have added more references for CDKL5 and FOXG1 mutations in atypical RTT.
esides a description of MeCP2 structure, please add a new part describing MeCP2
ctions, and in this context insert the first part of the paragraph "Mecp2 modulates
scription by bridging DNA with regulatory complexes", which well describes the role of
CP2 in anchoring the NCoR1/SMRT complex to DNA.
have added a paragraph describing MeCP2 functions beginning with the paragraph
gested on page 5 of the review. In our first submission, we had a section on MeCP2 function
ch was removed upon request from the previous reviewers. We have now added a short
cription of MeCP2’s roles outside of repressing transcription: “However, MECP2 may also
litate transcriptional activation [64], chromatin compaction [65,66] and mRNA splicing
,68], while also interacting with a host of other regulatory proteins involved in a variety of
lecular pathways [67,69–71].” We feel that it is beyond the scope of this review to go into
her detail about these potential roles.
n the paragraph "Phenotype variation among people with MECP2 mutations", the authors
cribe the main causes of phenotypic variability among RTT patients, considering the type of
tation, its location, XCI phenomenon and the presence of modifier factors. I suggest minor
difications:
ease describe the 8 mutations more frequent
e reference 60 of Shahbazian 2002 is not relevant for XCI. Please replace it with Hoffbuhr et
2002.
have now included the 8 common RTT-causing missense mutations in the text:
spite this, only eight missense and nonsense mutations (R106W, R133C, T158M, R168X,
55X, R270X, R294X, and R306C) account for ~70% of all mutations in RTT (Figure 2c).”
ir location in the MECP2 is highlighted in Figure 2c. We have changed the XCI reference to
Hoffbuhr reference.
n the paragraph "Animal models inform MECP2 function" the authors describe the animal
del used in RTT syndrome research, focusing on mouse models. Even if a description of
ditional mouse models is lacking, please indicate the major results from the studies based
these mice. Moreover, I suggest to move in this paragraph the description of R306C
tation and the discussion of results by Tillotson et al., 2017 reported later in pag 10. In table
dd ref 98 to R306C mouse model.
appreciate this comment, however, due to the vast number of Mecp2 conditional deletions
point mutations it would be impossible to highlight all of them in this review. Further, beyond
Mecp2 liver-specific deletion, there are no other conditional deletions or point mutations that
uld be necessary for readers to better understand this metabolically-centered review.
ead, we have added a sentence and reference a review that provides an in-depth
cription of the various Mecp2 alleles: “A number of conditional deletions in different subsets
eurons highlight the essential role of MeCP2 in neuronal maintenance and function, yet their
der presentation suggests additional roles outside the CNS (reviewed in [142].”
egarding the discussion of statin treatment, please discuss recent data about no positive
cts of lovastatin treatment when performed on mouse models on C57 background.
reover, the author would mention that other mechanisms of statins, apart cholesterol
ering, have been proposed for their therapeutic potential in neuropsychiatric disorders.
have now referenced this paper: “Interestingly, lovastatin does not have a strong therapeutic
ct on B6.Mecp2tm1.1Bird male mice, supporting the idea that elevated peripheral lipids may be
iomarker for those patients who may respond to statin drugs [189].”
mention side effects of statins which may be therapeutically useful in neuropsychiatric
orders:
wever, statins are associated with other disease-improving side-effects, such as reducing
ammation [159,160], and negative side-effects, such as muscle weakness [161] and acute
mory loss [162]. Due to the prominent role of cholesterol in cardiovascular disease, statins
medically prescribed to prevent atherosclerosis. However, due to their relative safety, recent
dies have explored how statin drugs can be repurposed to treat non-cardiovascular diseases
uding Fragile X syndrome and neurofibromatosis Type I [163,164].”
Open Biology
